. Charles is in very good looks indeed. I had the
comfort of finding out the other evening who all the fat girls with long
noses were that disturbed me at the First H. ball. They all proved to be
Miss Atkinsons of En--[_illegible_].

I rejoice to say that we have just had another letter from our dear
Frank. It is to you, very short, written from Larnica in Cyprus, and so
lately as October 2. He came from Alexandria, and was to return there in
three or four days, knew nothing of his promotion, and does not write
above twenty lines, from a doubt of the letter's ever reaching you, and
an idea of all letters being opened at Vienna. He wrote a few days
before to you from Alexandria by the "Mercury," sent with despatches to
Lord Keith. Another letter must be owing to us besides this, one if not
two; because none of these are to me. Henry comes to-morrow, for one
night only.

My mother has heard from Mrs. E. Leigh. Lady Saye and Seale and her
daughter are going to remove to Bath. Mrs. Estwick is married again to
a Mr. Sloane, a young man under age, without the knowledge of either
family. He bears a good character, however.

  Miss AUSTEN,
    Godmersham Park, Faversham, Kent.




XVIII.


                                 STEVENTON, Saturday (January 3, 1801).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--As you have by this time received my last letter, it
is fit that I should begin another; and I begin with the hope, which is
at present uppermost in my mind, that you often wore a white gown in the
morning at the time of all the gay parties being with you.

Our visit at Ash Park, last Wednesday, went off in a _come-cá_ way. We
met Mr. Lefroy and Tom Chute, played at cards, and came home again.
James and Mary dined here on the following day, and at night Henry set
off in the mail for London. He was as agreeable as ever during his
visit, and has not lost anything in Miss Lloyd's estimation.

Yesterday we were quite alone--only our four selves; but to-day the
scene is agreeably varied by Mary's driving Martha to Basingstoke, and
Martha's afterwards dining at Deane.

My mother looks forward with as much certainty as you can do to our
keeping two maids; my father is the only one not in the secret. We plan
having a steady cook and a young giddy housemaid, with a sedate,
middle-aged man, who is to undertake the double office of husband to the
former and sweetheart to the latter. No children of course to be allowed
on either side.

You feel more for John Bond than John Bond deserves. I am sorry to lower
his character, but he is not ashamed to own himself that he has no doubt
at all of getting a good place, and that he had even an offer many years
ago from a Farmer Paine of taking him into his service whenever he might
quit my father's.

There are three parts of Bath which we have thought of as likely to have
houses in them,--Westgate Buildings, Charles Street, and some of the
short streets leading from Laura Place or Pulteney Street.

Westgate Buildings, though quite in the lower part of the town, are not
badly situated themselves. The street is broad, and has rather a good
appearance. Charles Street, however, I think is preferable. The
buildings are new, and its nearness to Kingsmead Fields would be a
pleasant circumstance. Perhaps you may remember, or perhaps you may
forget, that Charles Street leads from the Queen Square Chapel to the
two Green Park Streets.

The houses in the streets near Laura Place I should expect to be above
our price. Gay Street would be too high, except only the lower house on
the left-hand side as you ascend. Towards that my mother has no
disinclination; it used to be lower rented than any other house in the
row, from some inferiority in the apartments. But above all others her
wishes are at present fixed on the corner house in Chapel Row, which
opens into Prince's Street. Her knowledge of it, however, is confined
only to the outside, and therefore she is equally uncertain of its being
really desirable as of its being to be had. In the mean time she assures
you that she will do everything in her power to avoid Trim Street,
although you have not expressed the fearful presentiment of it which was
rather expected.

We know that Mrs. Perrot will want to get us into Oxford Buildings, but
we all unite in particular dislike of that part of the town, and
therefore hope to escape. Upon all these different situations you and
Edward may confer together, and your opinion of each will be expected
with eagerness.

As to our pictures, the battle-piece, Mr. Nibbs, Sir William East, and
all the old heterogeneous, miscellany, manuscript, Scriptural pieces
dispersed over the house, are to be given to James. Your own drawings
will not cease to be your own, and the two paintings on tin will be at
your disposal. My mother says that the French agricultural prints in
the best bedroom were given by Edward to his two sisters. Do you or he
know anything about it?

She has written to my aunt, and we are all impatient for the answer. I
do not know how to give up the idea of our both going to Paragon in May.
Your going I consider as indispensably necessary, and I sha