aps for the next
six weeks we shall not have two dry days together.

Lizzy is very much obliged to you for your letter and will answer it
soon, but has so many things to do that it may be four or five days
before she can. This is quite her own message, spoken in rather a
desponding tone. Your letter gave pleasure to all of us; we had all the
reading of it of course,--I three times, as I undertook, to the great
relief of Lizzy, to read it to Sackree, and afterwards to Louisa.

Sackree does not at all approve of Mary Doe and her nuts,--on the score
of propriety rather than health. She saw some signs of going after her
in George and Henry, and thinks if you could give the girl a check, by
rather reproving her for taking anything seriously about nuts which they
said to her, it might be of use. This, of course, is between our three
discreet selves, a scene of triennial bliss.

Mrs. Breton called here on Saturday. I never saw her before. She is a
large, ungenteel woman, with self-satisfied and would-be elegant
manners.

We are certain of some visitors to-morrow. Edward Bridges comes for two
nights in his way from Lenham to Ramsgate, and brings a friend--name
unknown--but supposed to be a Mr. Harpur, a neighboring clergyman; and
Mr. R. Mascall is to shoot with the young men, which it is to be
supposed will end in his staying dinner.

On Thursday, Mr. Lushington, M.P. for Canterbury, and manager of the
Lodge Hounds, dines here, and stays the night. He is chiefly young
Edward's acquaintance. If I can I will get a frank from him, and write
to you all the sooner. I suppose the Ashford ball will furnish
something.

As I wrote of my nephews with a little bitterness in my last, I think
it particularly incumbent on me to do them justice now, and I have great
pleasure in saying that they were both at the Sacrament yesterday. After
having much praised or much blamed anybody, one is generally sensible of
something just the reverse soon afterwards. Now these two boys who are
out with the foxhounds will come home and disgust me again by some habit
of luxury or some proof of sporting mania, unless I keep it off by this
prediction. They amuse themselves very comfortably in the evening by
netting; they are each about a rabbit net, and sit as deedily to it,
side by side, as any two Uncle Franks could do.

I am looking over "Self-Control" again, and my opinion is confirmed of
its being an excellently meant, elegantly written work, without anything
of nature or probability in it. I declare I do not know whether Laura's
passage down the American river is not the most natural, possible,
every-day thing she ever does.

_Tuesday._--Dear me! what is to become of me? Such a long letter!
Two-and-forty lines in the second page. Like Harriot Byron, I ask, what
am I to do with my gratitude? I can do nothing but thank you and go on.
A few of your inquiries, I think, are replied to _en avance_.

The name of F. Cage's drawing-master is O'Neil. We are exceedingly
amused with your Shalden news, and your self-reproach on the subject of
Mrs. Stockwell made me laugh heartily. I rather wondered that
Johncock,[25] the only person in the room, could help laughing too. I had
not heard before of her having the measles. Mrs. H. and Alethea's
staying till Friday was quite new to me; a good plan, however. I could
not have settled it better myself, and am glad they found so much in the
house to approve, and I hope they will ask Martha to visit them. I
admire the sagacity and taste of Charlotte Williams. Those large dark
eyes always judge well. I will compliment her by naming a heroine after
her.

Edward has had all the particulars of the building, etc., read to him
twice over, and seems very well satisfied. A narrow door to the pantry
is the only subject of solicitude; it is certainly just the door which
should not be narrow, on account of the trays; but if a case of
necessity, it must be borne.

I knew there was sugar in the tin, but had no idea of there being enough
to last through your company. All the better. You ought not to think
this new loaf better than the other, because that was the first of five
which all came together. Something of fancy, perhaps, and something of
imagination.

Dear Mrs. Digweed! I cannot bear that she should not be foolishly happy
after a ball. I hope Miss Yates and her companions were all well the day
after their arrival. I am thoroughly rejoiced that Miss Benn has placed
herself in lodgings, though I hope they may not be long necessary.

No letter from Charles yet.

Southey's "Life of Nelson." I am tired of "Lives of Nelson," being that
I never read any. I will read this, however, if Frank is mentioned in
it.

Here am I in Kent, with one brother in the same county and another
brother's wife, and see nothing of them, which seems unnatural. It will
not last so forever, I trust. I should like to have Mrs. F. A. and her
children here for a week, but not a syllable of that nature is ever
breathed. I wish her last visit had not been so long a one.

I wonder whether Mrs. Tilson has ever lain-in. Mention it if it ever
comes to your knowledge, and we sha