 our caps, but I am not so well pleased with your giving it to them.
Some wish, some prevailing wish, is necessary to the animation of
everybody's mind, and in gratifying this you leave them to form some
other which will not probably be half so innocent. I shall not forget to
write to Frank. Duty and love, etc.

                                    Yours affectionately,      JANE.

My uncle is quite surprised at my hearing from you so often; but as long
as we can keep the frequency of our correspondence from Martha's uncle,
we will not fear our own.

  Miss AUSTEN, Steventon.




XVI.


                                13 QUEEN SQUARE, Tuesday (June 11).

MY DEAR CASSANDRA,--Your letter yesterday made me very happy. I am
heartily glad that you have escaped any share in the impurities of
Deane, and not sorry, as it turns out, that our stay here has been
lengthened. I feel tolerably secure of our getting away next week,
though it is certainly possible that we may remain till Thursday the
27th. I wonder what we shall do with all our intended visits this
summer! I should like to make a compromise with Adlestrop, Harden, and
Bookham, that Martha's spending the summer at Steventon should be
considered as our respective visits to them all.

Edward has been pretty well for this last week, and as the waters have
never disagreed with him in any respect, we are inclined to hope that he
will derive advantage from them in the end. Everybody encourages us in
this expectation, for they all say that the effect of the waters cannot
be negative, and many are the instances in which their benefit is felt
afterwards more than on the spot. He is more comfortable here than I
thought he would be, and so is Elizabeth, though they will both, I
believe, be very glad to get away--the latter especially, which one
can't wonder at somehow. So much for Mrs. Piozzi. I had some thoughts of
writing the whole of my letter in her style, but I believe I shall not.

Though you have given me unlimited powers concerning your sprig, I
cannot determine what to do about it, and shall therefore in this and in
every other future letter continue to ask your further directions. We
have been to the cheap shop, and very cheap we found it, but there are
only flowers made there, no fruit; and as I could get four or five very
pretty sprigs of the former for the same money which would procure only
one Orleans plum--in short, could get more for three or four shillings
than I could have means of bringing home--I cannot decide on the fruit
till I hear from you again. Besides, I cannot help thinking that it is
more natural to have flowers grow out of the head than fruit. What do
you think on that subject?

I would not let Martha read "First Impressions"[4] again upon any
account, and am very glad that I did not leave it in your power. She is
very cunning, but I saw through her design; she means to publish it from
memory, and one more perusal must enable her to do it. As for
"Fitzalbini," when I get home she shall have it, as soon as ever she
will own that Mr. Elliott is handsomer than Mr. Lance, that fair men are
preferable to black; for I mean to take every opportunity of rooting out
her prejudices.

Benjamin Portal is here. How charming that is! I do not exactly know
why, but the phrase followed so naturally that I could not help putting
it down. My mother saw him the other day, but without making herself
known to him.

I am very glad you liked my lace, and so are you, and so is Martha, and
we are all glad together. I have got your cloak home, which is quite
delightful,--as delightful at least as half the circumstances which are
called so.

I do not know what is the matter with me to-day, but I cannot write
quietly; I am always wandering away into some exclamation or other.
Fortunately I have nothing very particular to say.

We walked to Weston one evening last week, and liked it very much. Liked
what very much? Weston? No, walking to Weston. I have not expressed
myself properly, but I hope you will understand me.

We have not been to any public place lately, nor performed anything out
of the common daily routine of No. 13 Queen Square, Bath. But to-day we
were to have dashed away at a very extraordinary rate, by dining out,
had it not so happened that we did not go.

Edward renewed his acquaintance lately with Mr. Evelyn, who lives in the
Queen's Parade, and was invited to a family dinner, which I believe at
first Elizabeth was rather sorry at his accepting; but yesterday Mrs.
Evelyn called on us, and her manners were so pleasing that we liked the
idea of going very much. The Biggs would call her a nice woman. But Mr.
Evelyn, who was indisposed yesterday, is worse to-day, and we are put
off.

It is rather impertinent to suggest any household care to a housekeeper,
but I just venture to say that the coffee-mill will be wanted every day
while Edward is at Steventon, as he always drinks coffee for breakfast.

Fanny desires her love to you, her love to grandpapa, her love to Anna,
and her love to Hannah; the latter is particularly to be remembered.
Edward desires his love to you, to g