was speaking by him. But he was aware
that my lord cardinal was standing up with his hand outstretched and an
appearance of great anger on his face. For indeed those were terrible
things that Master Richard had said--that he should foretell the King's
death in this manner, and all the sorrows that he should go through,
for, as you know, all these words came about.

Yet it seemed that something restrained my lord from speaking till the
other was done; but when Master Richard went back a step, shaking under
the spirit of God, my lord burst out into words.

Master Richard could not understand him; there was drumming in his ears,
and the sweat poured from him, but when sight came back he observed my
lord's face, red with passion, turning now to him, now to the King, who
sat still in his place; his white eyebrows went up and down, and his
scarlet cape and his rochet flapped this way and that as he shook his
arms and cried out.

When he had done there was silence again for a full minute. Master
Richard could hear the breathing of one in the gallery without.

Then the King rose up without speaking, but looking intently upon the
young man, and still without speaking, went out from the room, and my
lord went after him.

When Master Richard had stood a little while waiting, and there was no
sound (for the door into the King's parlour was now shut again), he
turned to the other door to go out; for he had delivered his message,
and there was no more to be said.

The man that kept the door, and whose breathing Master Richard had heard
just now, barred the way, and asked him his business.

"My business is done," said Master Richard, "I must go home again."

"And the King?" asked the fellow.

"The King and my lord are gone back into the parlour."

There was no cause to keep Master Richard any longer, so the fellow let
him past, and he went down the gallery and the stairs towards the court
that opened upon the hall.

But before he reached the door, there was a great tumult overhead, and a
noise of men moving and crying, and Master Richard stayed to listen. (I
had almost said that it had been better if he had not stayed, but made
his way out quickly and escaped perhaps; but it is not so, as I now
believe, for our Lord had determined what should be the end.)

Two fellows came running presently down the stairs up which Master
Richard was looking. One of them was a page of my lord's, a lad dressed
all in purple with the pointed shoes of which I have written before, and
the other the man-at-arms that had kept the door. The lad cried out
shrilly when he saw him standing there, and came down the steps four at
a leap, with his hands outstretched to either wall. Master Richard
thought that he would fall, and stepped forward to catch him, but the
lad recovered himself on the rushes, and then, screaming with anger,
sprang at the young man's throat, seizing it with one hand, and striking
him in the face again and again with the other.

For an instant Master Richard stood amazed, then he caught the lad's
hands without a word and held them so, looking at the man-at-arms who
was now half-way down the stairs in his plate and mail, and at others
who were following as swiftly as they could. In the court outside, too,
there were footsteps and the sound of talking, and presently the door
was darkened by half a dozen others, who ran up at the tumult, and all
in a moment Master Richard found himself caught from behind and his
hands pulled away, so that the lad was able to strike him again, which
he did, three or four times.

So he was taken by the men and held.

Master Richard could not understand what the matter was, as he looked at
the press that gathered every moment on the stairs and in the court. So
he asked one that held him, and the page screamed out his answer above
the tumult of voices and weapons.

So Master Richard understood, and went upstairs under guard, with the
blood staining his brown and white dress, and his face bruised and
torn, to await when the King should come out of the fit into which he
had fallen, and judge him for the message which he had brought.




Of Master Richard's second speaking with his Grace: and of his
detention


_Abscondes eos in abscondito faciei tuae: a conturbatione hominum._

Thou shalt hide them in the secret of Thy face: from the disturbance of
men.--_Ps. xxx. 21._


VII


I scarcely have the heart to write down all that befell Master Richard;
and yet what it pleased God's Majesty that he should suffer, cannot
displease Him to write down nor to think upon.... [There follows a
curiously modern discussion on what I may call the gospel of Pleasure,
which is a very different thing from the gospel of Joy. The former, as
Sir John points out, disregards and avoids pain, the latter deals with
it. He points out acutely that this difference is the characteristic
difference between Greek and Christian philosophy.]

Master Richard was taken back again by two of the men-at-arms into the
parlour where he had lately seen the King, and was allowed to stand by
the window, looking out upon the river, while one fellow kept one door,
an