ravely.




Of the Second Temptation of Master Richard: and how he overcame it


_Exacuerunt ut gladium linguas suas: interderunt arcum rem amaram: ut
sagittent in occultis immaculatum._

They have whetted their tongues like a sword: they have bent their bow a
bitter thing, to shoot in secret the undefiled.--_Ps. lxiii, 4, 5._


X


As Master Richard had striven to serve God in the trinity of his nature,
so was he to be tried in the trinity of his nature. It was first in his
body that he was tempted, by pain and the fear of it; and his second
trial came later in the same day--which was in his mind.

He lay abed that morning till his dinner was brought to him, knowing
sometimes what passed--how a rat came out and looked on him awhile,
moving its whiskers; how the patch of sunlight upon the wall darkened
and passed; and how a bee came in and hummed a great while in the room;
and sometimes conscious of nothing but his own soul. He could make no
effort, he told me, and he did not attempt it. He only lay still,
committing himself to God Almighty.

He could not eat the meat, even had he wished it, but he drank a little
broth and ate some bread, and then slept again.

       *       *       *       *       *

He did not know what time it was when he awoke and found one by his bed,
looking down on him, he thought, compassionately. It was growing towards
evening, for it way darker, or else his eyes were heavy and confused
with sickness, but he could not see very clearly the face of the man who
stood by him.

The man presently kneeled down by the bed, murmuring with pity as it
seemed, and Master Richard felt himself raised a little, and then laid
down again, and there was something soft at the nape of his neck over
the wooden pillow and against his torn shoulders. There was something,
too, laid across his body and legs, as if to keep him from chill.

He said nothing for a while; he did not know what to say, but he looked
steadily at the face that looked on him, and saw that it was that of a
young man, not five years older than himself, shaven clean like a clerk,
and the eyes of him seemed pitiful and loving.

"_Laudetur Jesus Christus!_" said Master Richard presently, as his
custom was when he awoke.

"_Amen_," said the man beside the bed.

That comforted Master Richard a little--that the man should say _Amen_
to his praise of Jesu Christ, so he asked him who he was and what he did
there.

The young man said nothing to that, but asked him instead how he did,
and his voice was so smooth and tender that Master Richard was further
encouraged.

"I do far better than our Lord did," he answered. "He had none to
minister to Him."

It seemed that the young man was moved at that, for he hid his face in
his hands a moment.

Then he began to pity Master Richard, saying that it was a shame that he
had been so evilly treated, and that Master-Lieutenant should smart for
it if it ever came to his grace's ears. But he said this so strangely
that Master Richard was astonished.

"And how does the King do?" he asked.

"The King is at the point of death," said the young man solemnly.

"It is no more than the point then," said Master Richard confidently,
"and a point that will not pierce him, else what of the passion that he
must suffer?"

The young man seemed to look on him very steadily and earnestly at that.

"Why do you look at me like that?" he asked him. "I have done nothing to
his grace save give my tidings."

"Master Hermit," said the young man very gravely, "I entreat you not to
speak like that."

"How should I speak then?" he asked.

The young man did not answer immediately, but he moved on his knees a
little closer to the bed, and took Master Richard's hand softly between
his own, and so held it, caressing it. Master Richard told me that this
action moved him more than all else; he felt the tears rise to his eyes,
and he gave a sob or two. It is always so with noble natures after great
pain. [Sir John relates here the curious history of a girl who was
nearly burned as a witch, and that when she was reprieved she yielded at
once to the solicitations of marriage from a man whom she had always
hated, but who was the first to congratulate her on her escape. But the
story sadly interrupts the drama of the main narrative, and therefore I
omit it.]....

Then the young man spoke very sweetly and kindly.

"Master Hermit," he said, "you must bear with me for bringing sad
tidings to you. But will you hear them now or to-morrow?"

"I will hear them now," said Master Richard.

So the young man proceeded.

"One came back to-day from your home in the country. He was sent there
yesterday night by my lord cardinal. He spoke with your parson, Sir
John, and what he heard from him he has told to my lord, and I heard
it."

(This was a lie, my children. No man from London had spoken with me. But
you shall see what follows.)

"And what did Sir John tell him," asked Master Richard quietly. "Did he
say he knew nothing of me?"

Now he asked this, thinking that perhaps this was a method of tempting
him. And so it was, but worse than he thought it.

"No, poor lad," said t