d one the other.

He strove to keep quiet interiorly, keeping his eyes fixed upon the
broad river in the sunshine and the trees on the other side, and his
heart established on God's Will. He did not know then what kind of a fit
it was into which the King had fallen, nor why it was that himself
should be blamed for it; and when he spoke to the men they gave him
nothing but black looks, and one blessed himself repeatedly, with his
lips moving.

There came the sound of talking from the inner room, and once or twice
the sound of glass on glass. Without it was a fair day, very hot and
with no clouds.

Master Richard told me that he had no fear, neither now nor afterwards;
it seemed to him as if all had been done before; he said it was as if he
were one in a play, whose part and words are all assigned beforehand,
as well as the parts and words of the others, by the will of the
writer; so that when violence is done, or injustice, or hard words
spoken, or death suffered, it is all part of the agreed plan and must
not be resisted nor questioned, else all will be spoiled. It appeared to
him too as if the ankret in the cell were privy to it all, and were
standing, observing and approving; for Master Richard remembered what
the holy man had said as to the five wounds marked upon the linen, and
how he would not need to wear them much longer.

       *       *       *       *       *

After about half-an-hour, as he supposed, the voices waxed louder in the
other room; and presently one came out from it in the black dress of a
physician. He was a pale man, shaven clean, a little bald, and very
thin. It was that physician that died last year.

He said nothing, though his face worked, and he beckoned sharply to
Master Richard.

Master Richard went immediately across the floor and through into the
further room.

There were a dozen persons gathered there, all staring upon the King,
who sat in a great chair by the table. Two or three of these were
servants, and the rest of them, with my lord cardinal, the nobles that
had been in the palace at the time of the King's seizure. My lord
cardinal was standing by the chair, very stern and anxious-looking; and
all turned their faces, and there was an angry whisper from their
mouths, as the young man came forward and halted; and the physician shut
to the door.

But Master Richard did not observe them closely at that time; for he was
looking upon the King.

The King sat very upright in his chair; his hands rested on the carved
arms; and his face and eyes were as if made of Caen stone, chalky and
hard. He was looking out from the room, Master Richard said; and Master
Richard knew at once what it was that he was seeing. It was that of
which the holy youth had spoken; and was nothing else than the passion
and death that came upon him afterwards. The words that the King had
heard had opened the eyes of his soul, and he was now seeing for
himself.

Before that any could speak or hinder, Master Richard was on his knees
by the King, and had laid his lips to the white right-hand, seeing as he
did so the red ring on the first finger. My lord cardinal sprang forward
to tear him off, but the King turned his stony eyes; and my lord fell
back.

Then Master Richard knew that he had not given the whole message; and
that our Lord had not intended it at first. The message of the passion
and death was to be first; and the second, second--first the wound, and
then the balm.

So he began to speak; and these were the words as he told them to me.

"My lord King," he said, "Our Lord does not leave us comfortless when He
sends us sorrow. This is a great honour, greater than the crown that
you bear, to bear the crown of thorns. That bitter passion of Christ
that He bore for our salvation is wrought out in the Body which is His
Church, and especially in those members, which, like His sacred hands
and feet, receive the nails into themselves. Happy are those members
that receive the nails; they are the more honourable; it was on His feet
that He went about to do good; and with His hands that He healed and
blessed and gave His precious body; and with His burning heart that He
loves us.

"My lord King; men will name you fool and madman and crowned calf; it is
to their shame that they do so, and to your honour. For so they named
our Saviour. All who set not their minds on this world are accounted
fools; but who will be the merrier in the world that is to come?

"And, last, our Lord has bestowed on your highness an honour that He
bestows upon few, but which Himself suffered; and that, the knowledge of
what is to be. In this manner the passion is borne a thousand times a
day, by foreknowledge; and for every such pain there is a joy awarded.
It is for this reason that you may bear yourself rightly, and that He
may crown you more richly that our Lord has sent me to you, and bidden
me tell you this."

       *       *       *       *       *

All this while Master Richard was looking upon the King's face, but
there was no alteration in his aspect. It was as the colour of ashes,
and his eyes like stone; and yet Master Richard knew very well