 that his
grace heard what was said, but could not answer it. (It was so with him
often afterwards: he would sit thus without speaking or answering what
was said to him: he would go thus to mass and dinner and to bed, as pale
as a spirit: he would even ride thus among his army, with his crown on
his head, and his sword in his hand, dumb but not deaf; and looking upon
what others could not see: and all, as those about him knew very well,
began from the hearing of the message that Master Richard Raynal
brought to him from God's Majesty).

While Master Richard was speaking the rest kept silence: for I think
that somewhat held them for pity of those two young men--for the one
that sat in such stiff agony, and for the other near as pale, and red
with his own blood, that spoke so eloquently. But when he had done and
had kissed the white hand again, my lord cardinal came forward, pushed
him aside, and himself began to speak in a voice that was at once
pitiful and angry, crying upon the King to answer, telling him that he
was bewitched and under the power of Satan through the machinations of
Master Richard, and blessing him again and again.

Master Richard stood aside watching, and wondering that my lord could
speak so, and not understand the truth; and he looked round at the
others to see if any there understood. But they were all dumb, except
for muttering, and gave him black looks, and blessed themselves as their
eyes met his; so he committed himself to prayer. [Sir John preaches a
little sermon here on internal recollection, and the advantages of the
practice.]

It was of no avail; the King could not speak; and presently the
physician, Master Blytchett, [this is an extraordinary name, and is
obviously a corruption of some English name, but I do not know what it
can be, nor why it was retained, when all others were erased.] came
and whispered in my lord's ear as he knelt at the King's knees. My
lord turned his head and nodded, and Master Richard was seized from
behind and pulled through the door. The man who had pulled him was one
of the servants. I saw him afterwards and spoke with him, when he was
sorry for what he had done; but now he spat on Master Richard fiercely,
for the door was shut; and blessed himself mightily meanwhile.

Then he spoke to the man that kept the door; and said that Master
Richard was to be taken down and kept close, until there was need of him
again; for that the King was no better.

So Master Richard was brought downstairs, and through the guard-room
into one of the little cells: and as he went he was thinking on the
words of our Saviour.

_Si male locutus sum, testimonium perhibe de malo: si autem bene, quid
me caedis?_ ["If I have spoken ill, give testimony of the evil, but if
well, why strikest thou me?" (John xviii. 23.)]




Of the Parson's Disquisition on the whole matter


_In columna nubis loquebatur ad eos._

He spoke to them in the pillar of the cloud.--_Ps. xcviii. 7._


VIII


{At this point of the narrative, in consideration of what has preceded
and what is yet to follow, Sir John Chaldfield thinks it proper to
enlarge at great length upon the threefold nature of man, and the
various characters and functions that emerge from the development of
each part.

For the sake of those who are more interested in the adventures of
Master Richard and the King than in a medieval priest's surmises as to
their respective psychological states, I shall take leave to summarise a
few of his remarks and omit the rest. The whole section, in fact, might
be omitted without any detriment to the history; and may be ignored by
those who have arrived as far as this point in the reading of the book.

Sir John is somewhat obscure; and I suspect that he does not fully
understand the theory that he attempts to state, which I suppose was
taught him originally by Richard Raynal himself, and subsequently
illustrated by the priest's own studies. He instances several cases as
examples of the classes of persons to which he refers; but his obscurity
is further deepened by the action of the zealous and discreet scribe,
who, as I have said in the preface, has been careful to omit nearly all
the names in Sir John's original manuscript.

Briefly, his theory is as follows--at least so far as I can understand
him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is at once man's glory and penalty that he is a mixed being. By the
possession of his complex nature he is capable of both height and
depth. He can devote himself to God or Satan; and there are two methods
by which he can attain to proficiency in either of those services. He
can issue forth through his highest or lowest self, according to his own
will and predispositions.

Most men are predisposed to act through the lower or physical self; and
by an interior intention direct their actions towards good or evil.
Those that serve God in this manner are often incapable of high mystical
acts; but they refrain generally from sin; and when they sin return
through Penance. Those who so serve Satan sin freely, and make no
efforts at reformation. A few of these, by a wholehearted devotio