, my lord," said Master Richard, "he has his sheep in the wilderness.
He cannot run about to Court."

There was again a noise of laughter and dissent from the crowd of
clerks, and my lord cardinal smiled more than ever, shewing his white
teeth in the midst of his ruddy face.

"This is a witty fellow, your grace," said my lord cardinal aloud to the
King. "Will your grace be pleased to hear him in private?"

The King looked at Master Richard again, as if he knew not what to do.

"Will you not tell us here, sir?" he asked.

"I will not, your grace."

"Have you weapons upon you?" said my lord cardinal, still smiling.

Master Richard pointed to the linen upon his breast.

"I bear wounds, not weapons," he answered; which was a brave and shrewd
answer, and one that would please the King.

His grace smiled a little at that, but the smile passed again like the
sunshine between clouds on a dark and windy day, and the crowd crept up
nearer, so that Master Richard could feel hot breath upon his bare neck
behind. He committed his soul again to our Lady's tuition, for he knew
not what might be the end if he were not heard out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, the end of it was as you know, it was not possible for any man
with a heart in his body to look long upon Master Richard and not love
him, and the King's face grew softer as he looked upon that fair young
man with his nut-brown hair and the clear pallour of his face and his
pure simple eyes, and then at the coarse red faces behind him that crept
up like devils after holy Job. It was not hard to know which was in the
right, and besides the brave words that had stung the clerks to anger
had stung the King to pity and pleasure; so the end was that the guards
were bidden to let Master Richard through, and that he was to follow on
in the procession, and be gently treated, and admitted to see the King
when dinner was done.

       *       *       *       *       *

So that, my children, is the manner in which it came about that my name
was cried aloud before the King's presence, and the cardinals and the
nobles, in Westminster Hall on the Monday after _Deus qui nobis_.
[So the collect of Corpus Christi begins. It was a common method, even
among the laity, of defining dates.]




Of Master Richard's speaking with the King's Grace: and how he was
taken for it


_Et nunc reges intelligite: erudimini qui judicatis terram._

And now, O ye kings, understand: receive instruction, ye that judge the
earth.--_Ps. ii. 10._


VI


They searched Master Richard for weapons, in spite of what he had said,
when they had him alone in a little chamber off the King's closet, but
not unkindly, after what had been ordered, but they found nothing
beneath the white kirtle save the white skin, and nothing in the burse
but the book of hours and a little pen-knife, and the bottle of Quinte
Essence. One of them held that up, and demanded what it was.

"That is the cordial called Quinte Essence," said Master Richard,
smiling.

They thought it to be a poison, so he was forced to explain that it was
not.

"It is made from man's blood," he said, "which is the most perfect part
of our being, and does miracles if it is used aright."

They would know more than that, so he told them how it was made, with
salt, and set in the body of a horse, and afterwards distilled, and he
told them what marvels it wrought by God's grace; how it would draw out
the virtues and properties of things, and could be mixed with medicines,
and the rest, as I have told to you before. That is the bottle you have
seen at the parsonage.

But they would not give it back to him at that time, and said that he
should have it when the King had done talking with him. Then they went
out and left him alone, but one stood at the door to keep him until
dinner was over.

It was a little room, Master Richard said, and looked on to the river.
It was hung with green saye, and was laid with rushes. There was a round
table in the midst of the floor, and a chair on this side and that; and
there was an image of Christ upon the rood that stood upon the table.
There was another door than that through which he had been brought from
the hall.

Master Richard, when he was left alone, tried to compose himself to
devotion, but he was too much distracted by all that he had seen, until
he had said _ad sextam_, and then he was quieter, and sat down before
the table, looking upon the rood, and he did not know how long had
passed before the King came in.

       *       *       *       *       *

My children, I like to think of Master Richard then; it was his last
peaceful hour that he spent until near the end when I came to him. But
the peace of his heart did not leave him (except at one time), in spite
of all that happened to him, for he told me so himself. Yet, save for
the little wound upon his head, he was clean of all injury at this
time, and I like to think of him in his strength and loveliness as he
was then, content to give his tidings from our Lord to the King, and to
abide what was to follow.

As the clock beat eleven, the King came suddenly through from 