r vulneratum_ [wounded head ...
wounded heart.] of the true lover of Jesus Christ.

       *       *       *       *       *

He desired, after his simplicity, on the following morning, to speak
with my lord abbot, but that could not be, and he only saw my lord at
terce before mass, afar off sitting in his stall, a great prelate with
his chain, and with one who bore a silver wand to go before him and do
him service.

He prayed long in the church and at the shrine, and heard four or
five masses, and saw the new grave of the Queen in the midst of the
lady-chapel [This may have been Queen Katharine, whose body was
afterwards moved.], and did his devotions, hoping that our Lord would
show him what to speak to the King, and then went to dinner, and
after dinner set out to Westminster Hall, where he was told that the
King could be seen that day.

He passed through the little streets that lay very nastily, no better
than great gutters with all the filth of the houses poured out there,
but he said that the folks there were yet more surprising, for these
were they who had taken sanctuary here, and were dwelling round the
monastery with their wives and children. There were all sorts there,
slayers of men and deer, thieves, strikers of the clergy _suadente
diabolo_ ["at the devil's persuasion"--a technical phrase],
false-coiners, harlots, and rioters; all under the defence of Religion,
and not suffered to go out but on peril of being taken. He had a little
company following him by the time that he came to the gate, some mocking
and some silent, and all looking on him as he went.

When he came to the door of the hall the men that stood there would not
let him in until he entreated them. They told him that the King was now
going to dinner, and that the time was past, so he knew that it was not
yet his hour to give the message that he knew not. But they let him in
at last, and he stood in the crowd to see the King go by.

There was a great company there, and a vast deal of noise, for the
audiences were done, and the bill-men were pushing the folks with their
weapons to make room for the great men to go by, and the heralds were
crying out. Master Richard stood as well as he could, but he was pushed
and trampled about, and he could not see very well. They went by in
great numbers; he saw their hats and caps and their furred shoulders
between the crooked glaives that were gilded to do honour to the King,
but there was such a crying out on all sides that he could not ask which
was the King.

At last the shouting grew loud and then quiet, and men bowed down on all
sides; and he saw the man whom he knew must be the King.

He had a long face (as I saw for myself afterwards), rather sallow, with
a long straight nose and small, full mouth; his eyebrows were black and
arched high, and beneath them his sorrowful eyes looked out on the
people; he was bowing his head courteously as he came. On his head he
wore a black peaked cap of velvet; there was ermine at his collar and a
gold chain lay across his shoulders.

Now this is what Master Richard saw with the eyes of his body, but with
the eyes of his soul he saw something so strange that I know not how to
name or explain it. He told me that it was our Saviour whom he saw go by
between the gilded glaives, as He was when He went from Herod's hall. I
do not understand how this may be. The King wore no beard as did our
Saviour, he was full fourteen years younger at that time than was Jesu
Christ when He suffered His bitter passion. They were of a height, I
suppose, and perhaps the purple that the King wore was of the same
colour as that which our Lord had put on him, but that was all the
likeness that ever I could see, for the King's hair was black and his
complexion sallow, but our Lord's was corn colour, and His face white
and ruddy. [A reference, I suppose, to Cant. Cant. v. 10.] And, again,
the one was but a holy man, and the other God Almighty although made man
for our salvation.

Yet perhaps I did not understand Master Richard aright, and that he
meant something else and that it was only to the eyes of the soul that
the resemblance lay. If this is so, then I think I understand what it
was that he saw, though I cannot explain it to you, any more than could
he to me. There be some matters so high that no mouth can tell them,
heart only can speak to heart, but I can tell you this, that Master
Richard did not mean that our Lord was in the hall that day as He is in
heaven and in the sacrament of the altar; it was something else that he
meant.... [There follows a doctrinal disquisition.]

       *       *       *       *       *

When Master Richard came out from the hall, he told me that he was in a
kind of swoon, but having his eyes open, and that he knew not how he
came back to the guest-house. It was not until he knocked upon the door
that he saw that the crowd was about him again, staring on him silently.

The porter was peevish as he pulled him in, and bade him go and cut wood
in the wood-house for his keep, so all that afternoon he toiled in his
white kirtle at the cutting with another fellow who cu