his
parlour, but he was not alone: my lord cardinal was with him.

As Master Richard knelt down on the floor to do them homage, he observed
the King's dress: it was not as that of the other great men, for the
King loved plain dress, and folks said that the clothing he would have
liked best to wear was a monk's cowl or a friar's frock (and I doubt not
that there be many a monk and friar, and clerk too, who would have been
glad to change with him, for not every Religious man has a Religious
heart!).... [There follows a little sermon on Vocation.]

The King's dress was a plain doublet with a collar of ermine, and over
it a cloak of royal purple lined and trimmed with fur, but cut very
plainly with a round cape such as priests wear. He had the collar of
_Sanctus Spiritus_ over his shoulders, his cap on his head, with a peak
to it, and little plain round shoes (not like those pointed follies that
some wear, and that make a man's foot twice as long as God made it by
His wisdom). My lord cardinal was in his proper dress, and bore himself
very stately.

The King bade Master Richard stand up, and himself and my lord sat down
in the two chairs beside one another, so that half their faces were in
shadow and half in light. Master Richard saw again that the King looked
somewhat sick, and very melancholy.

Then the King addressed himself to Master Richard, speaking softly, but
with an appearance of observing him very closely. My lord, too, watched
him, folding his hands in his lap.

"Now tell me, sir," said the King, "what is this tidings that you bear?"

Master Richard was a little dismayed at my lord's coming: he had
thought it was to be in private.

"It was to your ear alone, your grace, that I was bidden to deliver the
message," he said.

"My lord here is ears and eyes to me," said the King, a little stiffly,
and my lord smiled to hear him, and laid his hand on the King's knee.

That was answer enough for the holy youth, who was attendant only for
God's will; so he began straightway, and told the King of his
contemplation of eight days before, and of the dryness that fell on him
when he strove to put away his thoughts, and of his words with me who
was his priest, and his coming to London and an the rest. Then he told
him of how he heard mass at saint Edward's altar, and how at the
elevation of the sacring our Lord had told him what tidings he was to
take.

The King observed him very closely, leaning his head on his hand and his
elbow on the table, and my lord, who had begun by playing with his
chain, ceased, and watched him too.

Master Richard told me that there was a great silence everywhere when he
had come to the matter of saint Edward's altar; it was such an exterior
silence as is the interior silence that came to him in contemplation.
There appeared no movement anywhere, neither in the room, nor the
palace, nor the world, nor in the three hearts that were beating there.
There was only the great presence of God's Majesty enfolding all.

When he ceased speaking, the King stared on him for a full minute
without any words, then he took his arm off the table and clasped his
hands.

"And what was it that our Lord said to you, sir?" he asked softly, and
leaned forward to listen.

Master Richard looked on the sick eyes, and then at the ruddy prelate's
face that seemed very stern beside it. But he dared not be silent now.

"It is this, your grace, that our Lord shewed to me," he began slowly,
"that your grace is not as other men are, neither in soul nor in life.
You walk apart from all, even as our Saviour Christ did, when He was
upon earth. When you speak, men do not understand you; they take it
amiss. They would have you make your kingdom to be of this world, and
God will not have it so. _Regnum Dei intra te est._ ['The kingdom of God
is within thee' (from Luke xvii. 21.)] It is that kingdom which shall be
yours. But to gain that kingdom you must suffer a passion, such as that
which Jesu suffered, and this is the tidings that He sends to you. He
bids you make ready for it. It shall be a longer passion than His, but I
know not how long. Yet you must not go apart, as you desire. You must go
this way and that at all men's will, ever within your _portans stigmata
Domini Jesu_. ['Bearing the marks of the Lord Jesu' (from Gal. vi. 17.)]
And the end of it shall be even as His, and as His apostles' was who now
rules Christendom. _Cum senueris, extendes manus tuas, et alius te cinget,
et ducet quo tu non vis._ ['When thou shalt be old thou shalt stretch
forth thy hands; and another shall gird thee, and lead thee whither thou
wouldst not' (John xxi. 18.)] And when you come before the heavenly
glory, and the blessed saints shall ask you of your wounds, you shall
answer them as our Lord answered, '_His plagatus sum in domo eorum qui
diligebant me._'" ["With these I was wounded in the house of them that
loved me" (Zach. xiii. 6.)]

       *       *       *       *       *

When Master Richard had finished speaking, his head and body shook so
much that he could scarce stand, or see the King plainly, and by this he
perceived for a certainty that God 