  *

And again there was the matter of the seven days that Master Richard
fulfilled from the time of his setting out from his house, to the time
that he entered into his heavenly mansion. Seven days are the time of
perfection; it was in seven days that God Almighty made the world and
all that is in it; there were seven years of famine in Egypt in which
Joseph gathered store, and seven years of plenty. [I cannot bring myself
to follow Sir John through the whole of the Old and New Testaments.]....
And it was in seven days that Master Richard Raynal completed his course,
from the sowing of the wheat and wine on Corpus Xti, to his joyful
harvest in heaven....}

       *       *       *       *       *

I thought, too, at this time of many other things, such as you may
suppose--of Master Richard's little cell in the country which would
never see him again (for I did not know at this time what the King
intended of his grace), and of the beasts that awaited him so
lamentably, and then of this great room hung all over with royalty
whither it had pleased God that his darling should come to die. I
looked, too, very often upon Master Richard as he lay before me, upon
his clean pallour, paler than I had ever seen it, and his slender
fingers roughened by the spade, and his strong arm, and his smiling
lips, and his closed eyes that looked within upon what I was not worthy
to see, and I wondered often what it was that he was saying to our Lord
and the blessed, and what they were saying to him, and I prayed that my
name might be mentioned amongst them, lest I should be a castaway after
all that I had heard and seen.

When it was dark (for I dared not kindle the candles) the King came in
again, and as he came in Master Richard spoke my name, and moved his
hand towards me on the coverlet.




How Master Richard went to God


_Transivimus per ignem et aquam: et eduxisti nos in refrigerium._

We have passed through fire and water: and Thou hast brought us out into
a refreshment.--_Ps. lxv. 12._


XV


The King presently kissed Master Richard's hand and asked his pardon and
his prayers, saying that he had known nothing of what went forward
during those two days, until the crying of Jesus' name by Master Richard
before the cardinal, but blaming his own craven heart, as he called it.

And when Master Richard had spoken awhile, he asked the King to go out,
for that he had much to say to me in secret.

So the King went out very softly, and set other guards at the doors,
and we two sat there a long while.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was astonished at Master Richard's strength and courage, for he had
spoken aloud to the King, but when the King was gone out, he spoke in a
lower voice, holding my hand. It was very dark, for he would have no
lights, and I could see no more of him but a little of his hair, and the
pallour of his face beneath it, until the morn came and the end came.

       *       *       *       *       *

He told me first of what he had done, and what had been done to him
since a week ago, when we had kissed one another at the lych-gate--all
as I have told it to you. He talked quietly, as I have said, but he
laughed a little now and again, and once or twice his voice trembled
with tears as he related our Lord's loving-kindness to him. (I have
never known any man who loved Jesu Christ more than this man loved Him.)

I asked him a few questions, and he answered them, but the effect of
all that he said was what I have written down here, and sometimes I have
his very words as he spoke them.

At last he came to the end of what he had to say, and began to tell me
of the _Night of the Soul_, and here he talked in a very low voice so
that I could scarcely hear what he said, and of what he said I did not
understand one half, [I am thankful that Sir John recognized his own
limitations.] for it was full of mysteries such as other contemplative
souls alone would recognise--for all contemplatives, as you know, relate
the same things to one another which they have seen and heard, and the
words that each uses the other understands, but other men do not; for
they speak of things that they have seen indeed, but for which there are
no proper human words, so that they have to do the best that they can.

He told me that the state that I have described to you continued until
he came before my lord cardinal, so that although he saw men's faces
and heard their words they were no more to him than shadows and
whisperings; for since (as it appeared to him) he had lost God by his
own fault there was no longer anything by which he might communicate
with man.

Yet all this while there was the conflict of which I have spoken. There
was that in him, which we name the Will, which continued tense and
strong, striving against despair. Neither his mind nor his heart could
help him in that _Night_; his mind informed him that he had sinned
deadly by presumption, his heart found nowhere God to love; and all
that, though he told himself that God was loveable, and adorable, and
that he could not fall into hell save by his own purpose and intention.

Yet, in 