who had perhaps stolen the keys, and gone in to get
credit to himself by persuading Master Richard to confess that all was a
delusion. For myself, I do not know what to think. [I suspect that Sir
John was inclined to think it was the devil, for at this point he
discusses at some length various cases in which Satan so acted. He seems
to imply that it was a peculiar and cynical pleasure to the Lord of Evil
to disguise himself as an ecclesiastic.]....

Now, old Master ... said mass before my lord cardinal at seven o'clock,
and then went to his own chamber, but he was immediately sent for again
to my lord, who appeared to be in a great agitation. My lord told him
that one had come from the ankret to bid him let Master Richard go, for
that it was not the young man who was afflicting the King, but God
Almighty.

"But he shall not play Pilate's wife with me," said my lord in a great
fury, "I shall go through with this matter. See that you be with me,
Master Priest, at noon, and we will see justice done. I doubt not that
the young man must go for his trial."

He told the clerk, too, that Master Blytchett was greatly concerned
about his grace, and that the court would be in an uproar if somewhat
were not done at once. He had sat three hours last night with ... and
... and ... and ..., [It would be interesting to know who were these
persons.] and they had all declared the same thing. But he said nothing
of the whipping of Master Richard, and I truly believe that he knew
nothing of it.

So the hour for the questioning was fixed at noon, and the place to be
in my lord cardinal's privy parlour.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now that morning, as I told you, I was no more than usually heavy. I
remembered Master Richard's name before God upon the altar, and at ten
o'clock I went to dinner in the parsonage. It was a very bright hot
day, and I had the windows wide, and listened to the bees that were very
busy in the garden. I remember that I wondered whether they knew aught
of my dear lad, for I hold that they are very near to God, more so than
perhaps any of His senseless creatures, and that is why Holy Church on
Easter Eve says such wonderful things about them, and the work that they
do. [This refers to the _Exultet_ sung by the deacon in the Roman rite
on Holy Saturday.]

For they fashion first wax and then honey. It is the wax that in the
church gives light and honour to God, and it is to the honey-comb that
God's Word is compared by David. [Sir John continues in this strain for
a page or two.]....

It is not strange then that I thought about the bees, and the knowledge
that they have.

After I had done dinner, I slept a little as my custom is, and the last
sound that I heard, and the first upon awaking, was the drone of the
bees. When I awakened I thought that I would walk down to Master
Richard's house and see how all fared. So I took my staff and set out.

It was very cool and dark in the wood, through which I had come up six
days before walking in the summer night with the young man, and all was
very quiet. I could hear only the hum of the flies, and, as I drew
nearer, the running of the water over the stones of the road, where it
crosses it beside the little bridge.

Then I came out beside the gate into the meadow, and my eyes were
dazzled by the hot light of the sun after the darkness of the wood.

I stood by the gate a good while, leaning my arms upon it (for I felt
very heavy and weary), and looking across the meadow yellow with flowers
to the green hazels beyond, and between me and the wood the air shook as
if in terror or joy, I knew not which. I could see, too, the open door
of the hut, and its domed roof of straw, and the wicket leaning against
the wall as he had left it, and on either side the may-trees lifted
their bright heads.

My children, I am not ashamed to tell you that I could not see all this
very clearly, for my eyes were dim at the thought that the master of it
was not here, and that I knew not where he was nor how he fared. I
prayed saint Giles with all my might that I might see him here again,
and walk with him as I had walked so often. And then at the end, a
little after I had heard the _Angelus_ ring from over the wood, and had
saluted our Lady and entreated her for Master Richard, I thought that I
would go up and see the hut.

As I went I perceived that here, too, the bees were busy in the noon of
the day, going to and fro intently, but I was to see yet more of them,
for I heard a great droning about me. At first I could not perceive
whence it came, but presently I saw a great ball of them gathering on
the doorway of the hut, as their custom is in summer-time. I was
astonished at that, I do not know why, but it seemed to me that bees
were all about me, _semitam meam et funiculum meum investigantes; omnes
vias meas praevidentes._ ["searching out my path and my line; foreseeing
all my ways" (from Ps. cxxxviii. 3,4.)] Well, I looked on them awhile,
but they seemed as if they would do me no harm, yet I did not wish to go
into the house while they hung there, so I was content with looking in
from where