ed in England at that time, who were under no vows,
but served God as it pleased them, not hesitating to go among their
fellows from time to time if they thought themselves called to it, who
were looked upon with veneration or contempt, according to the opinion
formed of them by their observers, but who, at any rate, lived a simple
and wholesome life, and were to some extent witnesses to the existence
of a supernatural Power at whose bidding (so they believed) they were
summoned to celibacy, seclusion, labour, and prayer.

It is curious also to trace through Sir John's fanciful eyes the
parallels between the sufferings of Master Richard and those of
Christ. Of course, no irreverence is intended. I should imagine that,
if Sir John were put on his defence, he would say that the life of
every true Christian must approximate to the life of Christ so far as
his spirit is identified with the Divine Spirit, and that this is
occasionally fulfilled even in minute details.

It is unnecessary to add much more in this introduction--(for the story
will tell its own tale)--beyond saying that the re-translation of the
French fragment into English has been to me a source of considerable
pleasure. I have done my best to render it into the English of its
proper period, including even its alliterations, while avoiding needless
archaisms and above all arbitrary spelling. But no doubt I am guilty of
many solecisms. I have attempted also to elucidate the text by a number
of footnotes, in which I have explained whatever seemed to call for it,
and have appended translations to the numerous Latin quotations in which
Sir John indulges after the manner of his time. I must apologise for
these footnotes--(such are always tiresome)--but I could think of no
other way by which the text could be made clear. They can always be
omitted without much loss by the reader who has no taste for them.

Sir John's style is a little difficult sometimes, especially when he
treats in detail of his friend's mystical experience, but he has a
certain power of word-painting (unusual at his date) in matters both of
nature and of grace, and it is only when he has been unduly trite or
obscure that I have ventured, with a good deal of regret, to omit his
observations. All such omissions, however, as well as peculiar
difficulties of statement or allusion, have been dealt with in
foot-notes.

With regard to the function of the book, at any rate since its first
translation into French, it is probably safe to conjecture that it may
have been used at one time for reading aloud in the refectory. I am led
to make this guess from observing its division into chapters, and the
quasi-texts appended to each. These texts are of all sorts, though all
are taken from the Book of Psalms; but their application to the matter
that follows is sometimes fanciful, frequently mystical, and
occasionally trite.

If the book receives any sympathy from English readers--(an eventuality
about which I have my doubts)--I shall hope, at some future date, to
edit others of the MSS. still reposing in the little room under the roof
between the _Piazza Navona_ and the _Piazza Colonna_ in Rome, to which I
have been generously promised free access.

I must express my gratitude to the Superior of the Order of ---- (to
whose genius, coupled with that of another, I dedicate this book), for
giving me permission to edit his MS.; to Dom Robert Maple, O.S.B., for
much useful information and help in regard to the English mystics; and
to Mme. Germain who has verified references, interpreted difficulties,
and assisted me by her encouragement.

ROBERT BENSON.

Cambridge,
Feast of SS. Peter and Paul, 1905.




How Sir John visited Master Hermit: and found him in contemplation

_Protexit me in abscondito tabernaculi sui._

He hath protected me in the secret place of His tabernacle.
--Ps. xxvi. 5.


I

[The Ms. begins abruptly at the top of the page.]


... It was at vespers on the fourth day afterwards, being Corpus
Christi, that saint Giles, as I suppose, moved me to visit Master
Richard. So I put on my cap again, and took my furred gown, for I
thought it would be cold before I came home; and set out through the
wood. I was greatly encouraged by the beauty of the light as I went
down; the sun shone through the hazels on my right, and the roof of
leaves was a fair green over my head; and to right and left lay a carpet
of flowers as blue as the Flanders' glass above the altar. I had learnt
from Master Richard, though he was thirty years my younger, many
beautiful lessons, and one of them that God's Majesty speaks to us by
the works of His almighty hands. So when I saw the green light and the
gold and the blue, and the little flies that made merry in the way, I
took courage.

At the lower end of the wood, as you know, the path falls down steeply
towards the stream, and when it has left the wood there are meadows to
right and left, that were bright with yellow flowers at this time. In
front the stream runs across the road under hazels, and where the chapel
is still a-building over his body, on the left side, with its back
against th