n to
evil, succeed in establishing a relation between themselves and physical
nature, and gain a certain control over the lower powers inherent in it.
To this class belong the less important magicians and witches; and even
some good Christians possess such powers (which we now call psychical)
which, generally speaking, they are at a loss to understand. Such
persons can blast or wither by the eye; they have a strange authority
over animals; [I append a form of words which Sir John quotes, and
which, he says, may be used sometimes lawfully even by christened men.
It is to be addressed in necessity to a troublesome snake. "By Him who
created thee I adjure thee that thou remain in the spot where thou art,
whether it be thy will to do so or otherwise. And I curse thee with the
curse wherewith the Lord hath cursed thee."] and are able to set up a
connection between inanimate material objects and organic beings. [He
instances the wasting of an enemy by melting a representation of him
fashioned in wax.] But such magic, even when malevolent, need not be
greatly feared by Christian men living in grace: its physical or
psychical influence can be counteracted by corresponding physical acts:
such things as the sign of the cross, the use of sacramentals, the
avoidance of notoriously injurious follies such as beginning work on
Friday, the observance of such matters as wearing Principium Evangelii
secundum Joannem on the person, and the paying of ocular deference to
Saint Christopher on rising--these precautions and others like them are
usually a sufficient safeguard. [I am afraid it is impossible to clear
Sir John wholly of the charge of superstition. The "Beginning of the
Gospel according to John" was the fourteen verses read as the last
Gospel after mass. A copy of this passage was often carried, sewn into
the clothes, to protect from various ills. The image of St. Christopher
usually stood near the door of the church to ensure against violent
death all who looked on it in the morning.]

But all this is a very different matter from the high mysticism of
contemplatives, ascetics, and Satanic adepts.

These are persons endowed with extraordinary dispositions, who have
resolved to deal with invisible things through the highest faculty of
their nature. The Satanic adepts are greatly to be feared, even in
matters pertaining to salvation, for, although their power has been
vastly restricted by the union of the divine and human natures in the
Incarnation of the Son of God, yet they are capable by the exercise of
their power, of obscuring spiritual faculties, and bringing to bear
grievous temptations, as well as of afflicting by sickness, misfortune
and death.

These select souls are the great mages of all time; and their leader,
since the year of redemption, Simon Magus himself, could be dealt with
by none other than the Vicar of Christ and prince of apostles.

It is not every man, even with the worst will in the world, who is
capable of rising to this sinister position: for it is not enough to
renounce the faith, to make a league with Satan, to insult the cross and
to commit other enormities: there must also be resident in the aspirant
a peculiar faculty, corresponding to, if not identical with, the
glorious endowment of the contemplative. If, however, all these and
other conditions are fulfilled, the initiated person is severed finally
from the Body of Christ and incorporated into that of Satan, through
which mysterious regeneration it receives supernatural powers
corresponding to those of the baptised soul.

Finally Sir John considers those whom he calls "God's adepts," and
among those, though in different classes, he places Richard Raynal
and the King. [A little later on he also mentions King Solomon as an
eminent pre-Christian adept, and Enoch.] These adepts, he says, are of
every condition and character, but that which binds them together is the
fact that they all alike deal directly with invisible things, and not,
as others do, through veils and symbols. Since the Incarnation, however,
all baptized persons who frequent the sacraments are in a certain degree
adepts, for in those sacraments they may be truly said to see, handle,
hear and taste the Word of Life. Other powers, however, are still
reserved to those who are the masters of the spiritual life;--for not
all persons, however holy, are contemplatives, ecstatics, or seers.

Now contemplation is an arduous labour; it is not, as some ignorant
persons think, a process of idle absorption; it is rather a state of
strenuous endeavour, aided at any rate in its first stages by acts of
steady detachment from the world of sense. Richard Raynal had passed
through the first rigour of that purgative stage in the short period of
one year, and although he still lived a detached life, and practised
various austerities, he was so far free of danger that he was able, as
has been already remarked, to dig and talk without interrupting the
exercise of his higher faculties. He had then passed to the illuminative
stage, and had remained, again for one year, in the process of being
informed, taught and kind