led in preparation for the third and last stage
of union with the Divine--elsewhere named the Way of Perfection. He had
been rewarded by various sensible gifts, particularly by that of
Ecstasy, by which the soul passes, as fully as an embodied soul can
pass, into the state of eternity. Here mysteries are seen plainly,
though they seldom can be declared in words, or at least only haltingly
and under physical images that are not really adequate to that which
they represent. [That which Richard calls Calor, or Warmth, appears
to be one of these.]

With the King, however, it was different. By the exigencies of his
vocation he was unable to live the properly contemplative life;
solitude, an essential to that life, was impossible to him: but he had
done what he could by asceticism and the habit of recollection; and,
further, his soul had been naturally one of those which had the
necessary endowments of the contemplative.

The purgative, illuminative and unitive stages had therefore been
confused, and had come upon him simultaneously, though gradually; and
this as was to be expected, had resulted in intense suffering. There was
for him no gradation by which he passed slowly upwards from detachment
to union. Richard Raynal's words to him had coincided with the
struggling emergence of his own soul on to the higher plane; and he had
opened his spiritual eyes on to a terrible future for which he had had
but little preparation. The result had been a kind of paralysis of his
whole nature, and henceforward the rest of his life, Sir John
maintains, had been darkened by his first definite experience in the
mystical region. If indeed this King was none other than Henry the
Sixth, Sir John's explanation is an interesting commentary on that
melancholy personage. Richard then, according to this hypothesis,
found joy in his contemplation because he had been trained to look for
it; and Henry had found sorrow because he had been overwhelmed by the
suddenness of the revelation and his men unpreparedness. Sir John adds
that it is difficult to know which of the two lives would be more
pleasing to God Almighty.

As regards his whole statement I feel it is impossible to say more than
to quote the opinion of a modern mystic to whom I submitted the
original; which was to the effect that it contains a little nonsense, a
good deal of truth, and a not intolerable admixture of superstition. He
added further that Sir John must not be judged hardly; for he was
limited by an inadequate vocabulary and an ignorance of many of the
terms that his scanty reading enabled him to employ.}




How Master Richard took his meat: and of Master Lieutenant's whipping
of him


_Domine, ante te omne desiderium meum; et gemitus meus a te non est
absconditus._

Lord, all my desire is before Thee: and my groaning is not hidden from
Thee.--_Ps. xxxvii. 10._


IX


It was a little cell in which Master Richard found himself that
afternoon, after he had passed through the guardroom and heard the anger
and laughter of the men-at-arms, and sustained their blows, and when he
had looked about it, at the little narrow window high up upon the wall,
and the water that dripped here and there from the stones, and the
strong door shut upon him, the first thing that he did was to go down
upon his knees in the puddle, and thank God for solitude.

(There be two kinds of men in the world, those that love solitude, and
those that hate it; for there be two kinds of souls, the full and the
empty. Those that be full have enough to occupy them with, and those
that be empty are for ever seeking somewhat wherewith to occupy them.)

When he had done that he looked round again upon the walls and the
ceiling and the floor, and sitting down upon the wood that was to be his
pillow, first girding up his kirtle that it might not be fouled, he
sought to unite himself with all that he saw, that it might be his
friend and not his foe. So he told me when I asked him, but I do not
know if I understood him aright.

There he sat then a great while, communing with God, and the saints,
with his cell and with his soul, and after a little time his interior
quiet was again restored. Then, as he knew he would have no light that
night, and that the cell would grow dark early, for his window looked
eastwards, and was a very little one, he made haste to say the rest of
his office from the book that he had with him. But he said it slowly, as
the Carthusians use, sucking the sweetness out of every word, and saying
_Jesu_ or _Mary_ at every star [the break in each verse of the psalter
is marked with an asterisk], and after a while the sweetness
was so piercing that he could scarcely refrain from crying out.

When he had done he looked again at his window, and saw that the strip
of sky was becoming green with evening light, and he thought upon his
hazels at home.

Half an hour afterwards a fellow came with his bread and water for
supper, on a wooden plate and in a great jug, set them down and went out
without speaking.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now I will tell you all that Master Richard did; it was his custom whe