" ["Silver and gold
I have none." (Acts iii. 6.)]

(That was the little bottle that I have told you of before. It was
distilled of his own blood, according to the method of Hermes
Trismegistus.)

"If I do not return," he said, "I bequeath all to you; and I wish six
masses to be said; the first to be sung, of _Requiem_; the second of the
five wounds; the third of the assumption; the fourth of all martyrs with
a special memory of saint Christopher; the fifth of all confessors with
a special memory of saint Anthony, hermit, and saint Giles, abbot; the
sixth of all virgins with a special memory of saint Agnes."

You understand, my children, that he knew what would come to him, and
that he had foreseen all; he spoke as simply as one who was going to
another village only, looking away from me upon the ground. (I was glad
of that.)

I begged of him to bid good-bye to his meadow.

"I will not;" he said, "I bear it with me wherever I go."

Then he took me by the arm, carrying his shod staff in his other hand,
and led me to the gate, for I was so blinded that I stumbled as I went.

Once only did I speak as we passed upwards through the dark wood.

"And what will be your message," I asked, "when you come to the King?"

"Our Lord will tell it me when I come thither," he said.

We went through the village that lay dark and fast asleep. I wished him
to go to some of the houses, and bid the folks good-bye, but he would
not.

"I bear them, too, wherever I go," he said.

After we had adored God Almighty in the church, [That is, God present in
the Blessed Sacrament.] and I had shriven the young man and blessed him,
we went out and stood under the lychgate where his body afterwards
rested.

It was a clear night of stars and as silent as was once heaven for the
space of half-an-hour. The philomels had given over their singing near a
month before, and it was not the season for stags to bray; and those,
as you know, are the principal sounds that we hear at night.

We stood a long time listening to the silence. I knew well what was in
my heart, and I knew presently what was in his. He was thinking on his
soul.

He turned to me after a while, and I could see the clear pallour of his
face and the line of his lips and eyes all set in his heavy hair.

"Do you know the tale of the Persian king, Sir John?"

I told him No; he had many of such tales. I do not know where he had
read them.

"There was once a king who had the open eyes, and he looked into heaven
and hell. He saw there two friends whom he had known in the flesh; the
one was a hermit, and the other another king. The hermit was in hell,
and the king in heaven. When he asked the reason of this, one told him
that the hermit was in hell because of his consorting with the king, and
the king in heaven because of his consorting with the hermit."

I understood him, but I said nothing.

"Pray for me then, Sir John," said Master Richard.

Then we kissed one another, and he was gone without another word along
the white road.




How Master Richard fared: how he heard Mass in Saint Pancras' Church:
how he came to Westminster: and of his colloquy with the Ankret


_Abyssus abyssum invocat: in voce cataractarum tuarum_.

Deep calleth on deep: at the noise of Thy flood-gates.--_Ps. xli. 8._


III


The tale of his journey and of his coming to London he told me when I
saw him again at the end. He spoke to me for over an hour, and I think
that I have remembered near every word, but I cannot write down the
laughter and the tears that were in his voice as he told me.

As he went along the road beneath the trees and the stars, carrying his
kirtle, with his books and other things in his burse, and his hat on his
shoulders, he was both happy and sorry.

There are two kinds of happiness for mortal men: there is that which is
carnal and imperfect and hangs on circumstances and the health of the
body and such like things; and there is that which is spiritual and
perfect, which hangs on nothing else than the doing of the will of God
Almighty so far as it is known, so that a man may have both at once, or
either without the other. Master Richard had the one without the other.

At first he could not bear to think of what he had left behind him--his
little quiet house and meadow and the stream where he washed, and the
beasts and men that loved him; and he threw himself upon the other
happiness for strength. By the time that he had arrived at the ford he
was so much penetrated by this better joy that he was able to look
back, and tell himself, as he had told me, that he bore with him always
wherever he went all that he had left behind him. It was ever his
doctrine that we lose nothing of what is good and sweet in the past, and
that we suck out of all things a kind of essence that abides with us
always, and that every soul that loves is a treasure-house of all that
she has ever loved. It is only the souls that do not love that go empty
in this world and _in saecula saeculorum_. He thought much of this on
his road, and by the time that he had come so far that he thought it
best to sleep by the wayside, the warmth had come bac