 I stood. I could not see very much, my eyes were too weary
with the sunshine that beat on my head, and it was, perhaps, God's
purpose that I should not go in to see what I was not worthy to see.

I had, too, something of fear in my heart; it was like the fear that I
had had when I looked on Master Richard six days before as he prayed. So
I stood a little distance from the door and observed it and the bees. Of
the inside of the but I could see no more than the beaten mud floor for
a little space within, and through the veil of bees that swung this way
and that working their mysteries, the green light of the window looking
upon the hazel wood, above which was the image of the Mother of God.

Then on a sudden my fear came on me strongly, and I cried out what I
think was Master Richard's name for I thought that he was near me, but
there was no answer, and after I had looked a little more, I turned back
by the way I had come.

Now, here, my children, happened a marvellous thing.

When I reached the gate and had gone through it, I turned round again
towards the hut, ashamed of the terror that had lain on me as I walked
down, for I had walked like one in a nightmare, not daring to turn my
head.

And as I turned, for one instant I saw Master Richard himself, in his
brown kirtle and white sleeves standing at the door of his hut, with his
arms out as if to stretch himself, or else as our Saviour stretched them
on the rood. I could not observe his face, for in an instant he was
gone, before I had time to see him clearly, but I am sure that his face
was merry, for it was at this hour that he found his release before my
lord cardinal, and cried out, as you shall hear in the proper place.

I stood there a long while, stretching out my own hands and crying on
him by name, but there was no more to be seen but the hut and its open
door, and the may-trees on either side, and the wood behind, and the
yellow-flowered meadow before me, and no sound but the drone of the bees
and the running of the water. And I dared not go up again, or set foot
in the meadow.

       *       *       *       *       *

So I went home again, and told no man, for I thought that the vision was
for myself alone, and as night fell the messenger came to bid me come to
town, and to deliver to me the letter from the old priest of whom I have
spoken.




How one came to Master Priest: how Master Priest came to the King's
Bedchamber: and of what he heard of the name of Jesus


_Dum anxiaretur cor meum: in petra exaltasti me._

When my heart was in anguish: Thou hast exalted me on a rock.
--_Ps. lx. 3._


XIII


This was the letter that I read in my parlour that night, as the man in
his livery stood beside me, dusty with riding. I have it still (it is in
the mass-book that stands beside my desk; you can find it there after I
am gone to give my account.)....

"REVEREND AND RIGHT WORSHIPFUL SIR JOHN CHALDFIELD,--

"There is a young man here named Master Richard Raynal, who tells us
that you are his friend. He desires to see you before his death, for he
has been set upon and will not live many days. His grace has ordered
that you shall be brought with speed, for he loves this young man and
counts him a servant of God. He is with Master Raynal as I write. I fear
this may be heavy news for you, Sir John, so I will write no more, but I
recommend myself to you, and pray that you may be comforted and speeded
here by the grace of God, which ever have you in His keeping.

"Written at Westminster, the Wednesday after Corpus Xti.

                             "Yours,

                             "......."

I asked the fellow who brought the letter whether he could tell me any
more, but all that he could say was that he was in the court outside my
lord cardinal's privy stairs--where the people were assembled to see
Master Richard come out, and that he had seen a confusion, and blows
struck, and the glaivemen run in to help him. Then he had seen no more,
but he thought Master Richard had been taken back again to the palace,
and heard that he had been sore wounded and beaten, and was not like to
live.

       *       *       *       *       *

I will not tell you, my children, of my ride to London that night, save
that I do not think I ceased praying from the instant that I set out to
the instant when I came up as the dawn began behind Lambeth House, and
we went over in the ferry. I cried in my heart with David, _Fili mi,
Fili mi; quis mihi tribuat ut ego moriar pro te, fili mi, fili mi?_
["My son, my son! Who would grant that I might die for thee, my son, my
son?"--2 Kings xviii. 33.] And I prayed two things--that God might
forgive me for having allowed the lad to go, and that I might find him
alive. More than that I dared not pray, and I know not even now if I
should have prayed the first.

It was a wonderful dawn that I saw as I crossed over, with a mist coming
up from the water as a promise of great heat, and above it the high
roofs and towers like the lovely city of God, and over all the sky was
of a golden colour with lines of pearl across it. It comforted me a
little that I should