ons in Westminster Palace


_Et existimabam cognoscere hoc: labor est ante me_

And I desired that I might know this thing: labour in my sight.-_Ps.
lxxii. 16._


XIV


Master Blytchett told me that Master Richard was still asleep. He had
blooded him last night, and reduced the fever, but God only could save
his life. For himself, he thought that the young man would die before
night, and he did not know whether he would speak again.

I was drawn towards Master Blytchett; he seemed a sour fellow with
sweetness beneath; and I love such souls as that. I loved him more than
I did the King either at that time or afterward. The King appeared to me
at that time a foolish fellow--God forgive me!--for I had not then heard
what Master Richard had to say of him; nor that such opinion was to be
all part of his passion.

I thanked Master Blytchett for what he had done for my lad; but he burst
out upon me.

"I was all against him," he said, "at the beginning. I thought him a
crack-brained fool, and a meddler. But now--" And he would say no more.

It seemed that many were like that at the Court. They were near all
against him at first; but when they knew that he was wounded to death;
and had heard what the King had said of him; and seen my lord cardinal's
rosy face running with tears of pity and anger as he tore the lad out of
their hands; and gossipped a little with the porter of the monastery;
and listened to the holy ankret roaring out in his cell against
Hierusalem that slew the prophets;--and, most of all, remembered, or
told one another of Master Richard's face as he came out from the privy
staircase before he was struck down--like the Melitenses--_convertentes
se dicebant eum esse deum_. ["Changing their minds, they said he was
a god" (Acts xxviii. 6.)]

       *       *       *       *       *

I talked with many that morning (for I could do nothing for my lad), who
came in to see one who knew him so well, and had been his friend in the
country.

And after dinner my lord cardinal came in to see me, and I was brought
back to the parlour.

His ruddy face was all blotched and lined with sorrow or age, and for a
while he could say nothing. He went up and down with his sanguine robes
flying behind him, and stayed to look out of the window at the boats
that went by until I thought that he had forgotten me. And at the last
he spoke.

"I do not know what to say to you, Sir John, or what to say to God
Almighty on this matter. It appears to me that we have all been blind
and deaf adders, and with the venom of adders, too, beneath our
tongues--except one or two rude fellows, and my lord King who knew him
for a prophet, and the ankret, who tells us we shall all be damned for
what we have done, and yourself. There be so many of these wild asses
that bray and kick, that when he came we did not distinguish him to be
the colt on which our Lord came to town--and now, as it was then,
_Dominus eum necessarium habet_." ["The Lord hath need of him" (Luke
xix. 34.)]

"But I know what I wish to be said to him, though I dare not say it
myself, or set eyes on him--and that is that I pray him to forgive us,
and to speak our names before the Lord God when he comes before His
Majesty."

"I will tell him that, my lord," I said softly, for I did not doubt that
Master Richard would speak before he died.

After a while longer my lord cardinal asked how he did, and I told him
that he had lain very quiet all day without speaking or moving, and
then, for I knew what my lord wanted, I bade him in Jesu's name to come
in and look on him. For a while he would not, and then he came, and
knelt down beside the King.

Master Richard was lying now upon his back, with his hands hidden and
clasped upon his breast, and his lips were moving a little without
sound. I think that he had never had so long and so heavenly a colloquy
as he was enjoying then. I do not know whether it were the cardinal's
presence that disturbed him, or whether in that secret place where his
soul was retired he heard what had been said by us, but he spoke aloud
for the first time that day, and this is what he said:--

"_Et dimitte nobis debita nostra; sicut et nos dimittimus debitoribus
nostris._" ["And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive them that
trespass against us."]

I saw my lord's face go down upon his hands, and the King's face rise
and look at him. And presently my lord went out.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot tell you, my children, how that day passed, for it was like no
day that I have ever spent. It appeared to me that there was no time,
but that all stood still. Without, the palace was as still as death on
the one side--for the King had ordered it so--and on the other there was
the noise from the river, little and clear and distinct, of the water
washing in the sedges and against the stones, and the cries of the
boatmen on the further shore, and the rattle of their oars as they took
men across.

Once, as I stood by the window saying my office, a boat went by with
folk talking in it, and I heard enough of what they said to know that
they were speaking of Master Richa