he young man very pitifully, "Sir John knew you
well enough. The messenger saw your little house, too, and the hazels
about it; and the stream, and the path that you have made; and there
were beasts there, he said, a stag and pig that looked lamentably out
from the thicket."

Now observe the Satanic guile of this! For at the mention of all his
little things, and his creatures that loved him, Master Richard could
not hold back his tears, for he had thought so often upon them, and
desired to see them again. So the young man stayed in his talk, and
caressed his hand again, and murmured compassionately.

Presently Master Richard was quiet, and asked the young man to tell him
what the parson had said.

"To-morrow," said the young man, making as if to rise.

"To-day," said Master Richard.

So the young man went on.

"He went to the parsonage with Sir John, and talked with him there a
long while--"

"Did he see my books?" said Master Richard in his simplicity.

"Yes, poor lad; he saw your books. And then Sir John told him what he
thought."

"And what was that?" said Master Richard, faint with the thought of the
answer.

The young man caressed his hand again, and then pressed it as if to give
him courage.

"Sir John told him that you were a good fellow; that you injured neither
man nor beast; and that all spoke well of you."

Then the young man stayed again.

"Ah! tell me," cried Master Richard.

"Well, poor lad; as God sees us now, Sir John told the messenger that he
thought you to be deluded; that you deemed yourself holy when you were
not, and that you talked with the saints and our Lord, but that these
appearances were no more than the creations of your own sick brain. He
said that he humoured you; for that he feared you would be troublesome
if he did not, and that all the folk of the village said the same thing
to you, to please you and keep you quiet.--Ah! poor child!"

The young man cried out as if in sorrow, and lifted Master Richard's
hand and kissed it.

Master Richard told me that when he heard that it was as a blow in the
face to him. He could not answer, nor even think clearly. It was as if a
gross darkness, full of wings and eyes and mocking faces pressed upon
him, and he believed that he cried out, and that he must have swooned,
for when he came to himself again his face was all wet with water that
the young man had thrown upon it.

It was a minute or two more before he could speak, and during that time
it appeared to him that he did not think himself, but that ideas moved
before his eyes, manifesting themselves. At first there was a doubt as
to whether the young man had spoken the truth, and whether any messenger
had been to the village at all, but the mention of the hazels, the stag
and the pig, and his books, dispelled that thought.

Again it did not seem possible that the young man should have lied as
to what it was that I was said to have answered; if they had wished to
lie, surely they would have lied more entirely, and related that I had
denied all knowledge of him. But the falsehood was so subtle an one; it
was so well interwoven with truth that I count it to have been
impossible for Master Richard in his sickness and confusion to have
disentangled the one from the other. I have heard a physician say, too,
that the surest manner to perplex a man is to suggest to him that his
brain is clouded; at such words he often loses all knowledge of self; he
doubts his own thoughts, and even his senses.

This, then, was Master Richard's temptation--that he should doubt
himself, his friends, and even our Lord who had manifested Himself so
often and so kindly to the eyes of his soul.

Yet he did not yield to it, although he could not repel it. He cried
upon Jesu in his heart, and then set the puzzle by.

He looked at the young man once more.

"And why do you tell me this?" he asked.

The clerk (if he were a clerk) answered him first by another
Judas-caress or two, and then by Judas-words.

"Master Hermit," he said, "I am but a poor priest, but my words have
some weight with two or three persons of the court; and these again have
some weight with my lord cardinal. I asked leave to come and tell you
this as kindly as I could, and to see what you would say. I observed you
in the hall the other day, and I have a good report of your
reasonableness from the monastery. I conceived, too, a great love for
you when I saw you, and wish you well; and I think I can do you a great
service, and get you forth from this place that you may go whither you
will,--to your house by the stream or to some other place where none
know you. Would it not be pleasant to you to be in the country again,
and to serve God with all your might in some sweet and secret place
where men are not?"

"I can serve God here as there," answered Master Richard.

"Well--let that be. But what if God Almighty wishes you to be at peace?
We must not rush foolishly upon death. That is forbidden to us."

"I do not seek death," said Master Richard.

The clerk leaned over him a little, and Master Richard saw his eyes bent
upon him with great tenderness.

"Master Hermit," he sa