the King. It was not that the tidings were false, for he knew them for
true; but yet that he had been presumptuous in bearing them. It was as
though a stander-by had overheard tidings given by a king to his
servant, and had presumed to hear them himself, as it were Achimaas the
son of Sadoc. [I supposed that this obscure reference is to 2 Kings
xviii. 19.] And more than that, that he had presumed in thinking that he
could be such a man as our Lord would call to such an office. He had set
himself, it appeared, far above his fellows in even listening to our
Saviour's voice; he should rather have cried with saint Peter, _Exi a me
quia homo peccator sum Domine_. ["Depart from me, for I am a sinful man,
O Lord" (Luke v. 8.)]

It was this sin that had driven him from God's Presence. Our Lord had
bestowed on him wonderful gifts of grace. He had visited him as He
visits few others and had led him in the Way of Union, and he had
followed, triumphing in this, giving God the glory in words only, until
he had fallen as it seemed from the height of presumption to the depth
of despair, and lay here now, excluded from the Majesty that he desired.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, here is a very wonderful thing, and I know not if I can make it
clear.

You understand, my children, a little of what I heard from Master
Richard's lips--of what it was that he suffered. But although all this
was upon him, he perceived afterwards, though not at the time, that
there was something in him that had not yielded to the agony. His body
was broken, and his mind amazed, and his soul obscured in this _Night_,
yet there was one power more, that we name the Will (and that is the
very essence of man, by which he shall be judged), that had not yet sunk
or cried out that it was so as the fiend suggested.

There was within him, he perceived afterwards, a conflict without
movement. It was as when two men wrestle, their limbs are locked, they
are motionless, they appear to be at rest, but in truth they are
striving with might and main.

So he remained all that night in this agony, not knowing that he did
aught but suffer; he saw the light on the wall, and heard the cocks
crow--at least he remembered these things afterwards. But his release
did not come until the morning; and of that release, and its event, and
how it came about, I will now tell you.




How Sir John went again to the cell: and of what he saw there


_Ecce audivimus eam in Ephrata: invenimus eam in campis silvae._

Behold we have heard of it in Euphrata: we have found it in the fields
of the wood.--_Ps. cxxxi. 6._


XII


It is strange to think that other men went about their business in the
palace, and knew nothing of what was passing. It is more strange that
that morning I said mass in the country and did not faint for fear or
sorrow. But it is always so, by God's loving-kindness, for no man could
bear to live if he knew all that was happening in the world at one time.
[Sir John adds some trite reflections of an obvious character.]....

There was a little heaviness upon me that morning, but I think no more
than there had been every day since Master Richard had left us. It was
not until noon that a strange event happened to me. This day was
Wednesday after Corpus Christi, the sixth day since he was gone.

There was only one man that knew aught of what was passing in the
interior world, and that was the ankret in the cell against the abbey,
but of that you shall hear in the proper place.

Of what fell on that day I heard from an old priest whom I saw
afterwards, and who was in the palace at that time. He was chaplain to
my lord cardinal and his name was....

He told me that very early in the morning my lord sent for him and told
him that he would hold an examination of Master Richard that day after
dinner, to see if he should be put on his trial for bewitching the King.
There were none who doubted that he had bewitched the King, for his
grace had sat in a stupor for two days, ever since he had heard the
tidings from the holy youth. He heard his masses each morning with a
fallen countenance, and took a little food in private, and slept in his
clothes sitting in his chair; and spoke to none, and, it seemed, heard
none. Though he had been always of a serious and quiet mind, loving to
pray and to hear preaching more than to talk, yet this was the first of
those strange visitations of God that fell upon him so frequently in his
later years. Those then (and especially my lord cardinal) who now saw
him in such a state, did not doubt that there was sorcery in the matter,
and that Master Richard was the sorcerer; for the tale of the Quinte
Essence--of which at that time men knew nothing--and how that he could
not say _paternoster_ when it was put to him;--all this was run about
the court like fire.

But the tale of the clerk who went to him and sought to shake him, I
heard nothing of, save from Master Richard's own lips. None knew of
what had happened, and some afterwards thought that it was the fiend who
went to Master Richard, but some others that it was indeed one of the
clerks of the court 