 saw the stream again beneath me, and the leaves
overhead, and there was sweat on my forehead.

"When I stood up there was a knowledge in my heart--I do not know
whether from our Lord or the fiend--that I must leave this place, and go
to one whom I thought must be the King with some message; but I do not
know the message."

       *       *       *       *       *

My children, it was a dreadful thing to hear that. He had never spoken
so since his coming four years before, except once when he was in the
purgative way, and the fiend came to him under aspect of a woman. But he
had been in agony then, and he was quiet now. Before I could speak he
spoke again.

"I said that I could not go; that God Almighty had brought me here and
caused me to build my house and given me the meadow and the water and
the beasts as my friends--that I was neither monk nor friar nor priest
to be sent hither and thither--that I could not go. I cried on Him to
help me and shew me His will; and then I went to dinner.

"Since that time, Sir John, the warmth has left me. I see the flowers,
but there is nothing behind them; and the sunlight, but there is no
heavenly colour in it. My mind is disquiet; I cannot rest nor
contemplate as I should. I have been up the stairs that I have told you
of a thousand times; I have set myself apart from the world, which is
the first step, until all things visible have gone; then I have set
myself apart from my body and my understanding so that I was conscious
of neither hands nor heart nor head, nor of aught but my naked soul;
then I have left that, which is the third step; but the gate is always
shut, and our Lord will not speak or answer. Tell me what I must do, Sir
John. Is it true that this is from our Lord, and that I must go to see
the King?"

       *       *       *       *       *

I was sick at heart when I heard that, and I strove to silence what my
soul told me must be my answer.

"It has persevered ever since, my son Richard," I said?

He bowed his head.

"There is no savour in anything to me until I go," he answered. "This
morning as I looked from over the wall upon the sacrament, my eyes were
blinded: I saw nothing but the species of bread. I was forced to rest
upon the assent of my faith."

Again I attempted to silence what my soul told me. It was the very power
that Master Richard had taught me to use that was turning against what I
desired. I had not known until then how much I loved this quiet holy lad
with grave eyes--not until I thought I should lose him.

"There is no sin," I said, "that has darkened your eyes?"

I saw him smile sideways at that, and he turned his head a little.

"My sins are neither blacker nor whiter than they have always been," he
said; "you know them all, my father."

"And you wish to leave us?" I cried.

He unclasped his hands and laid one on my knee. I was terrified at its
purity, but his face was turned away, and he said nothing.

I had never heard the wood at that time of the evening so silent as it
was then. It was the time when, as the lax monks say, the birds say
mattins (but the strict observants call it compline), but there was
neither mattins nor compline then in the green wood. It was all in a
great hush, and the shadows from the trees fifty paces away had crept up
and were at our feet.

Then he spoke again.

"Tell me what your soul tells you," he said.

I put my hand on his brown head; I could not speak. Then he rose at
once, and stood smiling and looking on me, and the sunlight made a
splendour in his hair, as it were his heavenly crown.

"Thank you, my father," he said, though I had not spoken one word.

Then he turned and went into the hut, and left me to look upon the green
woods through my tears, and to listen to a mavis that had begun to sing
in one of the may-trees. I knew he was gone to make ready.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sun had quite gone down before he came out again, and the shadows
were like a veil over the land; only the yellow flowers burned hot like
candle flames before me.

He had four books in his hand and a little bottle, his hat on his
shoulders, and the wooden sandals on his feet that he had worn to walk
in four years before when he came to us. His little linen picture of the
five wounds was fastened over his breast with thorns. He carried across
his arm the second white-sleeved kirtle that he had, and his burse was
on his girdle. He held out two of the books to me.

"These are for you, my father," he said; "the book of hours and the
_Regula Heremitarum_ I shall take with me, and all the rest of the
mobills and the two other books I shall leave at our Lord's disposal,
except the bottle of Quintessence."

I took the two books and looked at them.

There was Master Hoveden's _Philomela_, and a little book he had made on
Quinte Essence.

"But you will need them!" I cried.

"I carry _Philomela_ in my heart," he said, "and as for the Quinte
Essence I shall have enough if I need it, and here is the bottle that
holds that that has been made of blood.--The fifth--being of gold and
silver I have not. _Argentum et aurum non est mihi_.