rd, and I heard one telling the tale
to another, and saw him point to the windows of the palace. But when
they saw me look out they gave over talking.

A little after the evening bell Master Blytchett took the King out to
his supper, and I was left alone with Master Richard, but I knew that
there were servants in the passage whom I might call if I needed them.

So I sat down by the pillow and looked at him a great while.

I will tell you, my children, something of what I thought at this time,
for it is at such times when the eyes are washed clean by tears that the
soul looks out upon truth and sees it as it is. [I have omitted a great
number of Sir John's reflections. Many of them are too trite even for
this work, and others are so much confused that it is useless to
transcribe them. Sir John seems to have been dearly fond of sermonizing.
Even these that I have retained and set within brackets can be omitted
in reading by those who prefer to supply their own comment.]....

       *       *       *       *       *

{I thought of the _ironia_ that marks our Lord's dealings. Master
Richard had come to bring tidings of another's passion, and he found his
own in the bringing of it. It was as when children play at the hanging
of a murderer or a thief, and one is set to play the part of prisoner
and another to hang him, and then at the end when all is prepared they
turn upon the hangman and bid him prepare himself for whipping and death
instead of the other, or maybe both are to be hanged. But our Lord is
not cruel, like such children, but kind, and I think that He acts so to
shew us that life is nothing but a play and a pretence, and that His
will must be done, however much we rebel at it. He teaches us, too, that
the blows we receive and even death itself are only seeming, though they
hurt us at the time, but that we must play in a gallant and merry
spirit, and be tender, too, and forgive one another easily, and that He
will set all right and allot to each his reward at the end of the
playing. And, since it is but a play, we are none of us kings or
cardinals or poor men in reality; we are all of us mere children of our
Father, and upon one is set a crown for a jest, and another is robed in
sanguine, and another in a brown kirtle or a white; and at the end the
trinkets are all put back again in the press, ready for another day and
other children, and we all go to bed as God made us.

But you must not think, my children, that our life is a little thing
because of this; I only mean that one thing is as little and as great as
another, and that maids maying in the country are as much about God's
business as kings and cardinals who strive in palaces, and who give to
this man a collar of Saint Spirit, and to that man a collar of hemp. It
was for this reason, maybe, that our Lord did all things when He was
upon earth. He rode upon His colt as a King; He reigned upon the rood;
He sat at meat with sinners; He wrought tables and chairs at the
carpenter's; He fashioned sparrows, as some relate, out of clay, and
made them fly; and He said that not a sparrow falls without His love and
intention; and He did all and said all in the same spirit and mind, and
at the end He smiled and put on His crown again, and sat down for ever
_ad dexteram Dei_, that He might let us do the same, and help us by His
grace, especially in the sacraments, to be merry and confident. [This is
a very puzzling philosophy. It is surely either very  profound or very
shallow. But it certainly is not cynical. Sir John is incapable of such
a feeble emotion as that.]....

       *       *       *       *       *

This then, too, I thought at that time.

It is marvellous how our Lord sets His seal upon all that we do, if we
will but attend to His working, and not think too highly upon what we do
ourselves. He had caused Master Richard to wear His five wounds until he
loved them, and to set his meat, too, in their order, and then He had
bidden His servant tell him that he did not need the piece of linen, for
that he should bear the wounds upon his body. And this He fulfilled;
for, as Master Blytchett told me, there were neither more nor less than
five wounds upon the young man's body, which he had received from the
crowd that set on him, besides the bruises and the stripes. He had
caused Master Richard, too, to be haled from judge to judge, as Himself
was haled; to be deemed Master by some, and named fool by others; to be
borne in a boat by one who loved him; to be arrayed in a white robe to
be judged without justice; to be dumb _sicut ovis ad occisionem ... et
quasi agnus coram tondente se_ ["as a sheep to the slaughter ... as a
lamb before his shearer" (Is. liii. 7.)], with many other points and
marks, besides that which fell afterwards, when a rich man, like him of
Arimathy, cared for his burying, and strewed herbs and bay leaves and
myrtle upon his body.

There was the matter, too, of the bees that I had seen. [Sir John lays
great stress upon the bees; I cannot understand why. He says that they
betokened great wealth and happiness.]....

       *       *       *       *     