n
he was at home, and he observed it here too.

He first poured water upon his hands, saying the psalm _lavabo_, and he
dried them upon the sleeves of his habit, for he had no napkin; then he
set the second stool before him, and broke the bread upon it into five
parts, in memory of the five wounds, setting two portions here and two
there, and the fifth in the middle. Then he blessed the food, looking
upon it a great while, and seeing with the eyes of his soul his
Saviour's body stretched upon the rood. Then he began to eat, dipping
each morsel into its proper wound, so that it tasted to him sweet as
wine, and last of all he ate that which lay in the middle, thinking on
the heart that was pierced for love of him. Then he drank water, blessed
himself, and gave thanks to God, and last of all poured water once more
upon his hands.

Master Richard has often told me that there is no such sweet food to be
found anywhere--(save only the sacrament of the altar)--as that which is
so blessed and so eaten, and indeed I have found it so myself, when I
have had patience to do so with it. [Sir John makes here a few rather
trite remarks upon holy bread and ashes and upon various methods of
devotion. His words are quite irrelevant, therefore I omit them. He is
careful, however, to warn his flock that not every form of devotion is
equally suitable for every soul.]....

Now God was preparing three trials for Master Richard, and the first
came on the following morning very early.

He had not slept very well; the noise from the guard-room without was
too great, and when that was quiet there was still the foulness of the
place to keep him awake, for all the floor was strewn with rotten rags
and straw and bones, as it were a kennel. His wounds, besides, had not
been tended, and he was very sick when he awoke, and for a while scarce
knew where he was. I think, perhaps, he had taken the fever then.

He heard presently steps in the way that led to his cell, and talking,
and immediately his door was unlocked and opened. There came in a
lieutenant of the King's guard, richly dressed, and in half-armour, with
his sword at his side. He had a heavy, hairy face, and as Master
Richard sat up on his blanket he perceived that the man was little
better than an animal--gross-bodied and gross-souled. I saw the fellow
later, though I did not speak with him, and I judge as Master Richard
judged. There were four men behind him.

Master Richard stood up immediately to salute the King's officer, and
stood awaiting what should follow, but he swayed with sickness as he
stood.

The officer said a word to his men, and they haled Master Richard forth,
pulling him roughly, although he went willingly, as well he was able for
his sickness, through the passage and into the guard-room.

There was a table set there on a step at the upper end with a chair
behind it; and at the lower end was a couple of men cleaning their
harness beneath a gallery that was held up by posts; the rest were out
changing guard. The door into the court was wide at first, and the sweet
air streamed in, refreshing Master Richard like wine after the stench
that was in his nostrils, and making him think upon the country again
and running water and birds, but Master-Lieutenant, when he had taken
his seat, bade them close it, and to set Master Richard before him; all
of which they did, and so held him.

Then he began to speak.

"Now, sir," he said roughly, "my lord King is at the point of death, and
I am here to examine you. What is it that you have done to his grace?"

Now Master Richard knew that the King could not die, else where were the
passion he was to undergo? And if the officer could lie in this matter,
why should he not lie in other matters?

"Where is your authority," he said "to examine me?"

"What sir! do you question that? You shall see my authority by and bye."

"I am willing to answer you as one man to another" said Master Richard
softly, "but not to plead, until I have seen your authority."

"Oh! you are willing to answer!" said the officer, smiling like an angry
dog. "Very well, then. What have you done to his grace?"

"I have done nothing," said Master Richard, "save give the message that
our Lord bade me give."

Master-Lieutenant laughed short and sharp at that, and the two men that
held Master Richard laughed with him. (The other two men were gone to
the other end of the hall, and Master Richard could not see what they
were doing.)

"Oho!" said the officer, "that is all that you have done to his grace! I
would advise you, sir, not to play the fool with me. We know very well
what you have done; but we would know from you how and when you did it."

Master Richard said nothing to that. He felt very light in the head,
what with his wounds and the bad air, and the strangeness of the
position. He knew that he was smiling, but he could not prevent it. His
smiling angered the man.

"You dare smile at me, sir!" he cried. "I will teach you to smile!"--and
he struck the table with his hand, so that the ink-horn danced upon it.

"I cannot help smiling," said Master Richard. "I think I am faint, sir