 out to the holy man, holding his nostrils with one hand, and
with the other gripping the bars and sitting sideways on the sill of the
window. He got no answer at first, and cried again.

Then there came an answer.

There rose out of the darkness a face hung all over with hair and near
as black as the hair, with red-rimmed eyes that oozed salt rheum. The
holy man asked him what he wished, and why did he hold his nostrils.

"I wish to speak with your reverence," said Master Richard, "of high
things. I hold my nostrils for that I cannot abide a stench."

The red eyes winked at that.

"I find no stench," said the holy man.

"For that you are the origin of its propagation," said Master Richard,
"and dwell in the midst of it."

It was foolish, I think, of the sweet lad to speak like that, but he was
an-angered that a man should live so. But the holy solitary was not
an-angered.

"And in God's Majesty is the origin of my propagation," he said.
"_Ergo_."

Master Richard could think of no seemly answer to that, and he desired,
too, to speak of high matters; so he let it alone, and told the holy man
his business, and where he lived.

"Tell me, my father," he said, "what is the message that I bear to the
King. It may be that our Lord has revealed it to you: He has not yet
revealed it to me."

"Are you willing to go dumb before the King?"

"I am willing if God will," said Master Richard.

"Are you willing that the King should be deaf and dumb to your
message?"

"If God will," said Master Richard again.

"What is that which you bear on your breast?"

"It is the five wounds, my father."

"Tell me of your life. Are you yet in the way of perfection?"

Then the two solitaries talked together a long while; I could not
understand all that Master Richard told to me; and I think there was
much that he did not tell me, but it was of matters that I am scarce
worthy to name, of open visions and desolations, and the darkness of the
fourth Word of our Saviour on the rood; and again of scents and sounds
and melodies such as those of which Master Rolle has written; and above
all of charity and its degrees, for without charity all the rest is
counted as dung.

_Avemaria_ rang at sunset, but they did not hear it, and at the end the
holy man within crept nearer and raised himself.

"I must see your face, brother," he said. "It may be then that I shall
know the message that your soul bears to the King."

Master Richard came out of his heavenly swoon then, and saw the face
close to his own, and what he said of it to me I dare not tell you, but
he bitterly reproached himself that he had ever doubted whether this
were a man of God or no.

As he turned his own face this way and that, that the failing light
might fall upon it, he said that beneath him in the little street there
was a crowd assembled, all silent and watching the heavenly colloquy.

When he looked again, questioning, at the holy old man, he saw that the
other's face was puckered with thought and that his lips pouted through
the long-falling hair. Then it disappeared, and a grunting voice came
out of the dark, but the sound of it was as if the old man wept.

"I do not know the message, brother. Our Lord has not shewed it to me,
but He has shewed me this--that soon you will not need to wear His
wounds. That I have to say. _Oremus pro invicem._" ["Let us pray for one
another."]

       *       *       *       *       *

The crowd pressed close upon Master Richard as he came down from the
window, and, going in the midst of them in silence, he came to saint
Peter's gate where the black monks dwell, and was admitted by the
porter.




How Master Richard saw the King in Westminster Hall: and of the Mass at
Saint Edward's Altar


_Revelabit condensa: et in templo ejus omnes dicent gloriam._

He will discover the thick woods: and in His temple all shall speak His
glory.--_Ps. xxviii. 9._


IV


Master Richard did not tell me a great deal of his welcome in the
monastery: I think that he was hardly treated and flouted, for the
professed monks like not solitaries except those that be established in
reputation; they call them self-willed and lawless and pretending to a
sanctity that is none of theirs. Such as be under obedience think that
virtue the highest of all and essential to the way of perfection. And I
think, perhaps, they were encouraged in this by what had been said of
themselves by our holy lord ten years before, for he was ever a favourer
of monks. [This may have been Eugenius IV., called _Gloriosus_. If so,
it would fix the date of Richard at about 1444.] But Master Richard did
not blame them, so I will not, but I know that he was given no cell to
be private in, but was sent to mix with the other guests in the common
guest-house. I know not what happened there, but I think there was an
uproar; there was a wound upon his head, the first wound that he
received in the house of his friends, that I saw on him a little later,
and he told me he had had it on his first coming to London. It was such
a wound as a flung bone or billet of wood might make. He had now the
_caput vulneratum_, as well as the _co