k that had left him
for four days.

He went aside then out of the road to find a hazel thicket, and by the
special guidance of God found one with a may-tree beside it. There he
groped together the dead leaves, took off his burse and his hat and his
girdle and his brown habit, and laid the habit upon the leaves,
unpinning the five wounds, and fastening them again upon his white
kirtle. Then he knelt down by the may-tree, and said his prayers,
beginning as he always did:

_"Totiens glorior, quotiens nominis tui, JESU, recordor."_ ["I glory, so
often as I remember Thy Name, JESU."]

Then he repeated the Name an hundred times, and his heart grew so hot
and the sweetness in his month so piercing that he could scarce go on.
Then he committed himself to the tuition of the glorious Mother of
Christ, and to that of saint Christopher, saint Anthony, hermit, and
saint Agnes, virgin, and lastly to that of saint Giles and saint Denis,
remembering me. Then he said compline with _paternoster, avemaria_, and
_credo_, signed himself with the cross, and lay down on his
kirtle--_specialissimus_, darling of God--and drew the second kirtle
over his body for fear of the dews and the night vapours; and so went to
sleep, striving not to think of where he had slept last night. (He told
me all this, as I have told you.)

He awoke at dawn in an extraordinary sweetness within and without, and
as he walked in his white habit beneath the solemn beech-trees, his soul
opened wide to salute the light that rose little by little, pouring down
on him through the green roof. The air was like clear water, he said,
running over stories, brightening without concealing their colours; and
he drank it like wine. He had that morning in his contemplation what
came to him very seldom, and I do not know if I can describe it, but he
said it was the sense that the air he breathed was the essence of God,
that ran shivering through his veins, and dropped like sweet myrrh from
his fingers. There was the savour of it on his lips, piercing and
delicate, and in his nostrils.

He set out a little later after he had washed, following the road, and
came to a timber chapel standing by itself. I do not know which it is,
but I think it must have been the church of saint Pancras that was
burned down six years after. The door was locked, but he sat to wait,
and after an hour came a priest in his gown to say mass. The priest
looked at him, but answered nothing to his good-day (there be so many of
these idle solitaries about that feign to serve God, but their heart is
in the belly). I do not blame the priest; it may be he had been deceived
often before.

There was a fellow who answered the mass, and Master Richard knelt by
himself at the end of the church.

When mass was over the two others went out without a word, leaving him
there. He said _ad sextam_ then, and was setting out once more when the
priest came back with a jug of ale and a piece of meat and bread which
he offered him, telling him he would have given him nothing if he had
begged.

Master Richard refused the meat and the ale, and took the bread.

The priest asked him his business, and he said he was for London to see
the King.

The priest asked him whether he would speak with the King, and he told
him Yes if our Lord willed.

"And what have you to say to him?" asked the priest.

"I do not know," said Master Richard.

The priest looked at him, and said something about a pair of fools, but
Master Richard did not understand him then, for he had not heard yet the
tale that the King was mad or near it.

So he kissed the priest's skirt, and asked his blessing; then he went
down the steps to the little holy well (which makes me think it to be
saint Pancras's church) and drank a little water after signing himself
with it and commending himself to the saint, and went on his way. The
sun was now high and hot, but he told me that when he looked back at the
turn of the path the priest was at the gate in the full sun staring
after him.

Of his journey that day there is not much to relate. He went by
unfrequented ways, walking sedately as his manner was, with devotion in
his heart. An hour before noon a woman gave him dinner as she came back
from taking it to her husband who burned charcoal in the forest, and
asked him a kiss for payment when he had done his meal, sitting on a
tree, with her standing by and looking upon him all the while. But he
told her that he was a solitary, and that he had kissed no woman but his
mother, who had died ten years before, so she appeared content, though
she still looked upon him. Then as he stood up, thanking her for the
dinner, she caught his hand and kissed that, and he reproved her gently
and went on his way again.

For many miles after that it was the same; he saw no man, but only the
beasts now and then, walking beneath the high branches in the sylvan
twilight, over the dead leaves and the fern, and seeing now and again,
as he expressly told me, for it seemed he had some lesson from it, the
hot light that danced in the open spaces to right and left.

He saw one strange sight, which I should not have b