_ through which the contemplative soul must pass or ever it
come to the dawn. The first two he had gone through during his life in
the country; the first is a kind of long-continued dryness, when
spiritual things have no savour; the second is an affection of the mind,
when not even meditation [This is an exercise distinct from contemplation
apparently. I include this passage, in spite of its technicalities, for
obvious reasons.] appears possible; the mind is like a restless fly that
is at once weary and active. This second is not often attained to by
ordinary souls, though all men who serve God have a shadow of it. It is
a very terrible state. Master Richard told me that before he suffered it
he had not conceived that such conflict was possible to man. It was
during this time that the fiend came to him in form of a woman. The
imagination that cannot fix itself upon the things of God is wide-awake
to all other impressions of sense. [I do not think that Sir John
understands what he is writing about, though he does his best to appear
as if he did. I have omitted a couple of incoherent paragraphs.]....

Now, these two first _nights_ I think I understand, for he told me that
what he suffered during his whipping in the hall and the strife of his
mind with the clerk were each a kind of symbol of them. But the third,
which he called the _Night of the Soul_ I do not understand at all. [It
is remarkable that this phrase frequently occurs in the writings of St.
John of the Cross, though he treats it differently. Until I came across
it in this MS. I had always thought that the Spanish mystic was the
first to use it.] This only can I say of the state itself: that Master
Richard said that it was in a manner what our Lord suffered upon the
rood when he cried to His Father _Eloi, Eloi, etc._

But I can tell you something of the signs of that affliction, as they
shewed themselves to Master Richard. Of the interior state of his soul I
cannot even think without terror and confusion. Compared with the
darkness of it, the other _nights_, he said, are but as clouds across
the sun on a summer's day compared with a moonless midnight in winter.
He had suffered a shadow of it before, when he was entering the
contemplative state, or the prefect Way of Union. Now it fell upon him.
Before I tell you how it came, I must tell you that this _night_, as he
explained it, takes its occasion from some particular thought, and the
thought from which it sprang you shall hear presently.

When the clerk had left him, sighing, as I said, as if with a kindly
weariness (to encourage the other to call for him, I suppose), Master
Richard committed himself again to God and lay still.

A fellow came in soon with his supper (for it was now growing dark), set
it by him and went out. Master Richard took a little food, and after a
while, as his custom was after repeating the name of Jesu, began to
think on God, on the Blessed and Holy Trinity, and on His Attributes,
numbering them one by one and giving thanks for each, and marking the
colour and place of each in the glory of the throne. He was too weary to
say vespers or compline, and presently he fell asleep, but whether it
was common sleep or not I do not know.

In his sleep it seemed to him that he was walking along a path beneath
trees, as he had walked on his way to London; but it was twilight, and
he could not see clearly. There was none with him, and he was afraid,
and did not know what he feared. He was afraid of what lay behind, and
on all sides, and he was yet more afraid of what lay before him, but he
knew that he could not stay nor turn. He went swiftly, he thought, and
with no sound, towards some appointed place, and the twilight darkened
as he went; when he looked up there was no star nor moon to be seen, and
what had been branches when he set out seemed now to be a roof, so thick
they were. There was no bray of stag, nor rustle of breeze, nor cry of
night-bird. He tried to pray, but he could remember no prayer, and not
even the healthful name of _Jesu_ came to his mind. He could do nought
but look outwards with his straining eyes, and inwards at his soul; and
the one was now as dark as the other. He thought of me then, my
children, and longed to have me there, but he knew that I was asleep in
my bed and far away. He thought of his mother whom he had loved so much,
but he knew that she was gone to God and had left him alone. And still,
through all, his feet bore him on swiftly without sound or fatigue,
though the terror and the darkness were now black as ink. He felt his
hair rising upon his head, and his skin prickle, and the warmth was
altogether gone from his heart, but he could not stay.

And at the last his feet ceased to move, and he stood still, knowing
that he was come to the place.

Now, I do not understand what he said to me of that place. He told me
that he could see nothing; it was as if his eyes were put out, yet he
knew what it was like.

It was a little round place in the forest, with trees standing about it,
and it was trampled hard with the footsteps of those who had come there
before him. But t