spite of all, and when all had failed him, his will strove
against despair (which is the antichrist of humility [A curious phrase,
and, I think, rather a good one. I suspect it was originally Master
Richard's.]), though he did not recognise until afterwards that he was
striving, for he thought himself lost, as I have said.

Then a little after noon, at the time when I saw his image at the door
of his cell, stretching himself as if after labour or sleep, he had his
release.

Now this is the one matter of which he did not tell me fully, nor would
he answer when I asked him except by the words, "_Secretum meum mihi_."
["My secret is mine."] But this I know, that he saw our Lord.

And this I know, too, that with that sight his understanding came back
to him, and he perceived for himself that Charity was all. He perceived,
also, that he had been striving, and amiss. He had striven to bear his
own sins, and for those few hours our Lord had permitted him to bear the
weight. He who bears heaven and earth upon His shoulders, and who bore
the burden of the sins of the world in the garden and upon the rood, had
allowed this sweet soul to feel the weight of his own few little sins
for those few hours.

When he saw that he made haste to cast them off again upon Him who alone
can carry them and live, and to cry upon His Name; and he understood in
that moment, he said, as never before, something of that passion and of
the meaning of those five wounds that he had adored so long in
ignorance.

But what it was that he saw, and how it was that our Lord shewed
Himself, whether on the rood, or as a child with the world in His hands,
or as crowned with sharp-thorned roses, or who was with Him, if any
were; I do not know. It was then that he said "_Secretum mihi._" And
when Master Richard had said that, he added "_Vere languores nostros
ipse tulit; et dolores nostros ipse portavit._" ["Surely He hath borne
our infirmities, and carried our sorrows" (Is. liii. 4.)]

       *       *       *       *       *

He lay silent a good while after that, and I did not speak to him. When
he spoke again, it was to bring to my mind the masses that were to be
said, and then he spoke of the Quinte Essence, and said that it was to
be mine if I wished for it; and all other things of his were to be mine
to do as I pleased with them, for he had no kin in the world.

And after he had spoken of these things the King came in timidly from
the parlour, and stood by the door; I could see the pallour of his face
against the hangings.

"Come in, my lord King," said Master Richard very faintly. "I have done
what was to be done, and there now is nothing but to make an end."

The King knelt down at the further side of the bed.

"Is it the priest you want, Master Hermit?" he asked.

"Sir John will read the prayers presently," said Master Richard.

I heard the King swallow in his throat before he spoke again.

"And you will remember us all," he said, "before God's Majesty, and in
particular my poor soul in its passion."

"How could I forget that?" asked Master Richard, and by his voice I knew
that he laughed merrily to himself.

I asked him whether he would have lights.

"No, my father," he said, "there will be light enough."

       *       *       *       *       *

It would be an hour later, I should suppose, after Master Blytchett was
come back, when he put out his hand again, and I knew that he wished for
the prayers.

Now there was only starlight, for he would have no candles, and the moon
was not yet risen. So I went across to the parlour door, and as I went
through I could see that the chamber was full of persons all silent, but
it was too dark to see who they were. I asked one for a candle, and
presently one was brought, and I saw that my lord cardinal was there,
and ... and ... [The names are omitted as usual. This discreet scribe is
very tiresome.] and many others. It was such a death-bed as a king might
 have.

So I read the appointed prayers, kneeling on my knees in the doorway,
and I was answered by those behind me.

When I had done that, I stood up to go back, and my lord cardinal caught
me by the sleeve.

"For the love of Jesu," he said, "ask if we may come in."

I went back and leaned over Master Richard, taking his hand in my own.

"My lord and the rest desire to come in, my son," I said. "If they may
come, press my hand."

He pressed my hand, and I spoke in a low voice, bidding them to come in.

So they came in noiselessly, one after another; I could see their faces
moving, but no more--my lord cardinal and the great nobles and the
grooms and the rest--till the room was half full of them.

The door was put to behind them, but I could see the line of light that
shewed it, where the candle burned in the parlour beyond; and I could
hear the sound of their breathing and the rustle once and again of their
feet upon the rushes.

Then I knelt down, when the others had knelt, and waited for the agony
to begin, when I should begin the last commendation.

My children, I have prayed by many death-beds, but I have never seen one
like this.

The curtains were wide, and the 