e common folk, and to
see the King plainly. He was upon his seat beneath the cloth-of-estate
that was quartered with the leopards and lilies, and had his hat upon
his head. About him, beneath the scaffold on which he sat were the great
nobles, and my lord cardinal had a chair set for him upon the right-hand
side, on the step below the King's.

All was very fair and fine, said Master Richard, with pieces of rich
stuff hanging upon the walls on this side and that beneath the windows,
and, finest of all were the colours of the robes, and the steel and the
gold and the white fur and the feathers, and the gilded glaives and
trumpets, and coat-armour of the heralds.

There was a matter about to be concluded, but Master Richard could not
tell what it was, for there was a din of talking all about him, and he
saw many clerks and Religious very busy together in the crowd, shaking
their fingers, lifting their brows, and clacking like rooks at
sunset--so the young man related it. There were two fellows with their
backs to him, standing in an open space before the scaffold with guards
about them. One of the two was a clerk, and wore his square cap upon
his head, and the other was not.

The King looked sick; he was but a young man at that time, not two years
older than Master Richard. He was listening with his head down, to a
clerk who whispered in his ear, kneeling by his side with papers and a
great quill in his hand, and the King's eyes roved as he listened, now
up, now down, and his fingers with rings upon them were arched at his
ear. My lord cardinal had a ruddy face and bright holy eyes, and sat in
his sanguine robes with his cap on his head, looking out with his lips
pursed at the clerks and monks that babbled together beyond the barrier.
He was an old man at this time, but wondrous strong and hearty.

At the end the King sat up, and there was a silence, but he spoke so low
and quick, with his eyes cast down, and the shouting followed so hard
upon his words, that Master Richard could not hear what was said. But it
seemed to content the clerks and the Religious [King Henry VI. was a
great favourer of ecclesiastics.], for they roared and clamoured and one
flung up his cap so that it fell beyond the barrier and he could not
come at it again. Then the two prisoners louted to the King, and went
away with their guards about them; and the King stood up, and the
cardinal.

Now this was the time on which Master Richard had determined for
himself, but for a moment he could not cry out: it seemed as if the
fiend had gripped him by the throat and were hammering in his bowels.
The King turned to the steps, and at that sight Master Richard was
enabled to speak.

He had not resolved what to say, but to leave that to what God should
put in his mouth, and this is what he cried, in a voice that all could
hear.

"News from our Lord! News from our Lord, your grace."

He said that when he cried that, that was first silence, and then such a
clamour as he had never heard nor thought to hear. He was pushed this
way and that; one tore at his shoulder from behind; one struck him on
the head: he heard himself named madman, feeble-wit, knave, fond fellow.
The guards in front turned themselves about, and made as though they
would run at the crowd with their weapons, and at that the men left off
heaving at Master Richard, and went back, babbling and crying out.

Then he cried out again with all his might.

"I bring tidings from my Lord God to my lord the King," and went forward
to the barrier, still looking at the King who had turned and looked back
at him with sick, troubled eyes, not knowing what to do.

A fellow seized Master Richard by the throat and pulled him against the
barrier, menacing him with his glaive, but the King said something,
raising his hand, and there fell a silence.

"What is your business, sir?" asked the King.

The fellow released Master Richard and stood aside.

"I bring tidings from our Lord," said the young man. He was all out of
breath, he told me, with the pushing and striking, and held on to the
red-painted barrier with both hands.

The King stooped and whispered with at cardinal, who was plucking him by
the sleeve, for the space of a _paternoster_, and the murmuring began to
break out again. Then he turned, and lifted his hand once more for
silence.

"What are the tidings, sir?"

"They are for your private ear, your grace."

"Nay," said the King, "we have no private ear but for God's Word."

"This is God's Word," said Master Richard.

There was laughter at that, and the crowd came nearer again, but the
King did not laugh. He stood still, looking this way and that, now on
Master Richard, and now on the cardinal, who was pulling again at
sleeve. It seemed as if he could not determine what to do.

Then he spoke again.

"Who are you, sir?"

"I am a solitary, named Richard Raynal," said the young man. "I come
from the country, from ... [It is most annoying that the name of the
village is wanting.] Sir John Chaldfield, the parson, will
undertake for me, your grace."

"Is Sir John here?" asked my lord cardinal, smiling at the clerks.

"No