id, "I entreat you not to be your own enemy. You
see that those that know you best love you, but they do not think you to
be what you think you are---"

"I am nothing but God's man, and a sinner," said the lad.

"Well, they think your visions and the rest to be but delusions. And if
they be delusions, why should not other matters be delusions too?"

"What matters?" asked Master Richard.

"Such matters as the tidings that you brought to the King."

"And what is it you would have me to do?" asked Master Richard again
after a silence.

"It is only a little thing, poor lad--such a little thing! and then you
will be able to go whither you will."

"And what is that little thing?"

"It is to tell me that you think them delusions too."

"But I do not think them so," said Master Richard.

"Think as you will then, Master Hermit; but, you know, when folks are
sick we may tell them anything without sin. And the King is sick to
death. I do not believe that you have bewitched him: you have too good a
face and air for that--and for the matter of the _paternoster_ I do not
value it at a straw. The King is sick with agony at what he thinks will
come upon him after your words. He will not listen to my lord cardinal:
he sits silent and terrified, and has taken no food to-day. But if you
will but tell him, Master Hermit, that you were mistaken in your
tidings--that it was but a fancy, and that you know better now--all will
be well with him and with you, and with us all who love you both."

So the clerk spoke, tempting him, and leaned back again on his heels;
and Master Richard lay a great while silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, I do not know who was this young man, whether he were a clerk or
whether he were not a devil in form of a man. I could hear nothing of
him at Court when I went there. It may be that he was one of those idle
fellows that had come to Master Richard from time to time to ask him to
make them hermits with him, else how did he know the matters of the stag
and the pig and the stream and the rest? But it does not greatly matter
whether his soul were a devil's or a man's, for in any case his words
were Satan's. If I had not heard what came after I should have believed
this temptation to be the most subtle ever devised in hell and permitted
from heaven. He spoke so tenderly and so sweetly; he commanded his
features so perfectly; he seemed to speak with such love and
reasonableness.

Yet I would have you know that Master Richard did not yield by a hair's
breadth in thought. He examined the temptation carefully, setting aside
altogether the question as to whether I had spoken as this young man had
said that I had. Whether I had spoken so or not made no difference. It
was this that he was bidden to do, to say that he had erred in his
tidings, to confess that they were not from God; to be a faithless
messenger to our Lord.

He examined this, then, looking carefully at all parts of the
temptation. [Sir John appends at this point two or three paragraphs,
distinguishing between the observing of a temptation of thought and
the yielding to it. He instances Christ's temptation in the Garden of
Gethsemane.]....

At the end Master Richard opened his eyes and looked steadily upon the
young man's face.

"Take this answer," he said, "to those that sent you. I will neither
hear nor consider such words any more. If I yield in this matter, and
say one word to the King or to any other, by which any may understand
that my message was a delusion, or that I spoke of myself and not from
our Lord, then I pray that our Lord may blot my name out of the Book of
Life."

       *       *       *       *       *

So Master Richard answered and closed his eyes to commune with God. And
the young man went away sighing but speaking no word.




Of the Dark Night of the Soul


_De profundis clamavi ad te, Domine: Domine exaudi vocem meam._

Out of the depths I have cried to Thee, O Lord: Lord, hear my
voice.--_Ps. cxxix. 1, 2._


XI


The third temptation was so fierce and subtle, that I doubt whether I
wholly understood it when Master Richard tried to tell it to me. He did
not tell me all, and he could answer but few questions, and I fear that
I am not able to tell even all that I heard from him. It was built up
like a house, he said, stone by stone, till it fenced him in, but he did
not know what was all its nature till he saw my lord cardinal.

A soul such as was Master Richard's must have temptations that seem as
nothing to coarser beings such as myself: as a bird that lives in the
air has dangers that a crawling beast cannot have. There are perils in
the height that are not perils on the earth. A bird may strike a tree or
a tower; his wings may fail him; he may fly too near the sun till he
faint in its heat; he cannot rest; if he is overtaken by darkness he
cannot lie still. [Sir John enumerates at some length other such dangers
to bird life.]....

       *       *       *       *       *

Now Master Richard described the state into which he fell under a
curious name that I cannot altogether understand. He said that there be
three _nights