 come to Master Richard so.

Even at that hour there were many awake. There was one great fellow by
the ferry, that was looking across towards the palace; and I think it
must have been he who had taken Master Richard over for love of saint
Giles and saint Denis, but I did not know that part of the tale at that
time, and I never saw him again.

In the court and passages, too, that we went along there were persons
going to and fro. One told me afterwards that never had he seen such a
movement at that hour since the night that the King's mother died. They
were all waiting for tidings of the lad, and they eyed me very narrowly,
and I heard my name run before me as I went.

At the last we came to a great door, and we were let through, and I was
in the King's bed-chamber.

It was a quiet room, and I will describe it to you now, although I saw
little of it at that time.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the centre, with its head against the wall, stood a tall bed, with a
canopy over it, and four posts of twisted wood, carved very cunningly
with little shields that bore the instruments of our Saviour's passion.
On the tapestry beneath the canopy, above the pillow, were the arms of
the King, wrought in blue and red and gold. The hangings on the walls
were all of a dark blue, wrought with devices of all kinds, and they
were hanged from a ledge of wood beneath the ceiling such as I have
never seen before or since. The ceiling was of painted wood, divided
into deep squares, and in the centre of each was a coat. The floor was
all over rushes, the cleanest and the most fragrant that I have ever
smelled. I think that there must have been herbs and bay leaves mixed
with them.

I saw all this afterwards, for when I came in the curtains were all
drawn against the windows, save against one that let in the cool air
from the river and a little pale light of morning, and two candles
burned on a table beside the bed. The room was very dark, but I could
see that a dozen persons stood against the walls, and one by every door.

But I had no eyes for them, and went quickly across the rushes, and as I
came round the foot of the bed, I heard my name whispered again, and the
King stood up from where he had been kneeling.

I have already described to you his appearance at that time, so I will
say no more here than that he was in all his clothes which were a little
disordered, and that his head was bare. He had been weeping, too, for
his eyes were red and swollen, and his lips shook as he put out his
hand. But he could not speak.

I kneeled down and kissed his hand quickly and stood up immediately.
Master Richard who was lying on his left side, turned away from me, so
that I could not see his face, but I knew he was not yet dead, else he
would have been laid upon his back, but he was as still as death. His
head was all in a bandage, except on this side where his long hair hung
across his cheek, and his bare arm lay across the rich coverlet, brown
to the elbow with his digging, and white as milk at the shoulder.

When I saw that I kneeled down too, and hid my face in my hands, and
although I felt the King lay his fingers on my shoulder I could not look
up. But it was not all for sorrow that I wept; I was thanking God
Almighty who permitted me to see Master Richard alive once more.

I do not know how long it was before I looked up, but all the folks
were gone from the room save the King, and Master Blytchett, the
physician, who sat on the other side of the bed.

I went round presently to the other side, the King going with me, and
there I saw Master Richard's face. I cannot tell you all that I saw in
it, for there are no words that can tell of its peace; his eyes were
closed below the little healed scar that he had taken in the monastery,
and his lips were open and smiling; they moved two or three times as I
looked, as if he were talking with some man, and then they ceased and
smiled again. But all was very little, as if the soul were far down in
some secret chamber with company that it loved.

I asked presently if he had received his Maker, and the King told me
Yes, and shrift too, and anointing--all the night before when he had
come to himself for a while and called for a priest. He had spoken my
name, too, at that time and they had told him that one was gone to
bring me and at that he seemed content.

Master Blytchett told me soon that I could be gone for a while, to take
some meat, and that he would send for me if Master Richard awoke. But I
said No to that; until the King bade me go, saying that he, too, would
remain, and pledging his word that I should be called.

So I went away into a parlour, and washed myself, and took some food,
and after a while the old clerk that had written the letter to me, came
in and saluted me.

I was desirous to know how all had come about, so we sat there a great
while in the window seat, with the door a little open into the
bed-chamber, and he told me the tale. I did not speak one word till he
had done.

This was how it came about.

       *       *       *       *       *

Master Richard was sent for from his