rsed as he cut,
but was silent after a while.

Yet, when supper and bed-time came and Master Richard had assisted at
compline in the abbey-church, still he knew not what the message was to
be on Monday, when he would see the King and speak with him.

On Sunday he did no servile work, except that he waited upon the guests,
girt with an apron, and washed the dishes afterwards. He heard four
masses that day, as well as all the hours, and prayed by himself a long
while at saint Edward's shrine, hearing the folks go by to the tilting,
and that night he went to bed with the servants, still ignorant of what
he should say on the next day.

I am sure that he was not at all disquieted by his treatment, for he did
not speak of it to me, except what was necessary, and he blamed no one.
When I saw the porter afterwards he told me nothing except that Master
Richard had worked well and willingly, and had asked for other tasks
when his were done. He had asked, too, for a plenty of water to bathe
himself, which he did not get. But whether he were disquieted or no on
that Sunday, at least he was content next day, for it was on the next
day at mass that our Lord told him what was the message that he was to
deliver to the King.

There was a Cluniac monk from France who had obtained leave to say mass
at the shrine of the Confessor, and Master Richard followed him and his
fellow to the altar at five o'clock in the morning to hear mass there
and see his Maker. [This is the common mediaeval phrase. Men did not
then bow their heads at the Elevation.]

He knelt down against the wall behind the high altar, and began to
address himself to devotion, but he was distracted at first by the
splendour of the tomb, the porphyry and the glass-work below, that
Master Peter the Roman had made, and the precious shrine of gold above
where the body lay, and the golden statues of the saints on either side.
All about him, too, were such marvels that there is little wonder that
he could not pray well for thinking on them--the kings that lay here and
there and their effigies, and the paved steps on this side and that, and
the fair painted glass and the high dark roof. Near where he knelt, too,
he could see the great relic-chest, and knew what lay therein--the
girdle of our Blessed Lady herself, mirror of chastity; the piece of
stone marked by Christ's foot as He went up to heaven; a piece of the
Very Rood on which He hanged; the precious blood that He shed there, in
a crystal vase; the head of saint Benet, father of monks. [Surely not!]
All these things have I seen, too, myself, so I know that they are truly
there.

Behind him, as he kneeled on the stones, sounded the singing of the
monks, and the noise of so much praise delighted him, but they ended
soon, and at _Sanctus_ his spirit began to be rapt into silence, and the
holy things to make heaven about him.

He told me that he did not know what befell him until it came to the
elevation of the sacring: only he knew that his soul was filled with
lightness and joyousness, as when he had walked in the wood at dawn
three days before.

But as he lifted up his hands to see his God and to beat upon his
breast, it appeared to him, he said, as if his feet rested again on some
higher place: until then he had been neither on earth nor in heaven.

Now there was no visible imagination that came to him then; he said
expressly that it was not so. There was none to be seen there but the
priest in the vestment with his hood on his shoulders, and the _frater
conversus_ [that is, the lay brother.] who held the skirt and shook the
bell. Only it appeared to him that the priest held up the Body for a
great space, and in that long time Master Richard understood many things
that had been dark to him before. Of some of the things I have neither
room nor wit to write; but they were such as these.

He understood how it was that souls might go to hell, and yet that it
was good that they should go; how it was that our Saviour was born of
His blessed Mother without any breaking of her virginity; how it is that
all things subsist in God; in what manner it is that God comes into the
species of the bread. But he could not tell me how these things were so,
nor what it was that was shewed him.... [There follow a few confused
remarks on the relations of faith to spiritual sight.]

There were two more things that were shewed him: the first, that he
should not return home alive, but that his dead corpse should be carried
there, and the second, what was the tidings that he should bear to the
King.

Then he fell forward on his face, and so lay until the ending of the
mass.




How Master Richard cried out in Westminster Hall: and of his coming to
a Privy Parlour


_Eructavit cor meum verbum bonum: dico ego opera mea regi._

My heart hath uttered a good word: I speak my works to the king.--_Ps.
xliv. 1._


V


It would be about half an hour before the King's dinner-time, which was
ten o'clock, that Master Richard came again to the hall.

There was not so great a press that day, and the holy youth was able to
make his way near to the barrier that held back th