 cell to the parlour of my lord
cardinal, but my lord was not ready for him, and he had to stand a
great while in the court to wait his pleasure. The rumour ran about as
to who it was, and a great number of persons assembled from all parts,
some from the palace, and some from the streets. These had so cried out
against the young man, that the billmen were sent for from the
guard-room to keep him from their violence. This priest had looked out
from a window at the noise, and seeing the crowd, had entreated my lord
to have the prisoner in without any more delay. So he was brought in,
and one was left to keep the little door that led to the privy stairs up
which he came.

It was then that this priest had seen him face to face, and I will try
to write down his words as he told them me.

"I came into the parlour," he said, "through the door behind my lord's
chair, as Master Raynal was brought in by the other door.

"I have never seen such a sight, Sir John, as I saw then. He was in his
white kirtle only, with the five wounds upon his breast, and he had on
his sandals. But his face was as that of a dead man: his eyelids were
sunk upon his cheek, and his lips hung open so that I could see his bare
teeth.

"There were two men who led him by the arms, and he would have fallen
but for their assistance, and I immediately whispered to my lord to let
him sit down. But my lord was busy and anxious at that time, for he had
but just come from the King, who was no better and would take no meat
nor speak at all. So he paid no heed to me, and presently began to ask
questions of Master Raynal, urging him to confess what it was that he
had done, and threatening him with this and that if he would not speak.

"But Master Raynal did not speak or lift his eyes; it seemed as if he
did not hear one word.

"My lord told him presently that if temporal pains did not move him,
perhaps, it was that he desired spiritual--for my lord was very angry,
and scarce knew what he was saying. But Master Richard made no answer.
I will tell you, Sir John, plainly, that I thought he was but a fool to
anger my lord so by his silence, for it could not be that he did not
hear: my lord bawled loud enough to awaken the dead, and I saw the folk
behind, some laughing and some grave.

"It would be full half an hour after noon before my lord had done his
questions, and lay back in his chair wrathful at getting no answer,
though the men that held Master Raynal shook him from side to side.

"Then it was that the end came.

"I was observing Master Raynal very closely, wondering whether he were
mad or deaf, and on a sudden he lifted his eyes, and his lips closed. He
appeared to be looking at my lord, but it was another that he saw.

"I cannot describe to you, Sir John, what that change was that came to
him, save by saying that I think Lazarus must have looked like that, as
he heard our Saviour Christ's voice calling to him as he lay in the
tomb. It was no longer the face of a dead man, but of a living one, and
as that change came, I perceived that my lord cardinal had raised
himself in his chair, and was staring, I suppose, at the young man too.
But I could not take my eyes off Master Raynal's face.

"Then on a sudden Master Raynal smiled and drew a great breath and cried
out. It was but one word; it was the holy Name of JESUS.

"I perceived immediately that my lord cardinal had stood up at that cry,
but then he sat down again, and he made a motion with his hand, and the
men that held Master Raynal wheeled him about, and they went through the
crowd towards the door.

"My lord cardinal turned to me, and I have never seen him so moved, but
still he could not speak, and while we looked upon one another there was
a great uproar everywhere--in the court and in the palace.

"I stood there, not knowing what to do, and my lord pushed past to the
window. He, too, cried out as he looked down, and then ran from the
room, and as I was following there broke in one by the door behind the
chair.

"'Where is my lord cardinal?' he cried; 'The King has sent for him.'

"Well, the end of the matter was that they brought Master Raynal back
again, wounded and battered near to death. The crowd that had been
attendant for him had set on him as he came out--they should have sent
more bill-men before to keep the road, and the King met him in the way
(for he had come to his senses again), and turned as white as ashes once
more, crying out that his own craven heart had slain one more [If this
king was Henry VI, the reference may be to Joan of Arc. But Henry was
only a child at the time of her death. At the best this can be only
conjecture.] servant of God, but I know not what he meant by that.
Master Raynal was taken to the King's bed-chamber, and my lord came
after. And the King has been with him, praying and moaning ever since."

Then I put one question to the priest.

"My lord cardinal?" I said.

"No man but the King has seen my lord cardinal since yesterday."

       *       *       *       *       *

We sat a while longer in silence, and then Master Blytchett came in to
see me.




Of Sir John's Meditati