e wood stood his little house.

I will tell you of all this, as I saw it then; for the pilgrims have
trampled it all about now, and the stream is all befouled and the banks
broken, and the trees cut down by the masons that came to make the
second chapel where Master Richard was wont to bathe himself, against
the fiend's temptations at first, and afterwards for cleanness' sake,
too--(for I never heard of a hermit as cleanly as was this young man,
soon, and in spite of his washings, by the prayers of our Lady and saint
Giles, to be declared among the blessed servants of God.)

The meadow was a fair circle of grass; with trees on every side but on
this where the gate stood. It sloped to the stream that ran shallow over
the stones, and down across it from the cell to the pool lay the path
trampled hard by Master Richard's feet; for he had lived there four
years at this time since his coming from Cambridge. Besides this path
there was another that circled the meadow, and it was on this that he
walked with God. I have seen him there sometimes from the gate, with his
hands clasped, fingers to fingers, and his eyes open but seeing nothing;
and if it had not been for the sin in my soul (on which God have pity!)
I might have seen, too, the heavenly company that often went with him
and of which he told me.

Before the hut lay a long garden-bed, in which the holy youth grew beans
in their season, and other vegetables at other times; for it was on
these, with nuts from the hazelwood, and grasses of which I know not the
names (though he has told me of them many times), with water from the
stream, that he sustained his life.

On either side of the hut stood a great may-tree; it was on account of
these that he had built his little house here, for he knew the
properties and divine significations of such things.

The house itself was of wattles, plastered with mud from the brook, and
thatched with straw. There was a door of wood that he leaned against the
opening on this side when he prayed, but not when he slept, and a little
square window high up upon the other side that looked into the green
wood. It is of that same door that saint Giles' new altar was made, for
the house fell down after his going, and the wind blew about the mud and
the sticks, and the pilgrims have now carried all away. I took the door
myself, when I came back and had seen him go through the heavenly door
to our Lord.

The house within was a circle, three strides across, with a domed roof
like a bee-hive as high as a man at the sides and half as high again in
the centre. On the left lay his straw for a bed, and above it on the
wall the little square of linen that he took afterwards with him to
London, worked with the five precious wounds of our Saviour. On the
right hand side was a wooden stool where he sat sometimes to pray and on
the wall against it a little press that held some bottles within, and in
another shelf some holy relics that are now in the church, and in
another his six books; and above, upon the top, a little cross with our
Lord upon it, very rude; for he said that the eyes of the soul should
not be hindered by the eyes of the body, and that our Lord showed
Himself often to him more clearly and truly than a craftsman could make
Him. Above the window was a little figure of the Mother of God, set
there, he told me, above the sight of the green wood, because she was
the mother of all living, and had restored what Eve had spoiled.

I cannot tell you, my children, of the peace of this place. The little
house, and indeed the whole circle of the meadow set about with trees,
was always to me as a mansion in paradise. There were no sounds here but
the song of the birds and the running of the water and the wind in the
trees; and no sight of any other world but this, except in winter when
the hill over against the hut showed itself through the branches not
three hundred paces away. On all other sides the woods rose to the sky.
I think that the beasts knew the peace of the place. I have seen often a
stag unafraid watching Master Richard as he dug or walked on his path;
the robins would follow him, and the little furry creatures sit round
him with ears on end. And he told me, too, that never since he had come
to the place had blood fallen on the ground except his own when he
scourged himself. The hunting-weasel never came here, though the conies
were abundant; the stags never fought here though there was a fair
ground for a battlefield. It was a peace that passed understanding, and
what that peace is the apostle tells us.

Here I came then on Corpus Christi evening, thirty years ago, as the sun
was near its setting behind the gate through which I came, and my shadow
lay half-across the meadow before me.

       *       *       *       *       *

It appeared to me that somewhat was amiss, but I knew not what it was: I
was a little afraid. Master Richard was not to be seen, but his door was
wide, so I thought he would not be praying. As I came up the path I saw
something that astonished me. There was a circle of beasts about the
hut, little conies that sat in the sunligh