."

One of the men shook him by the arm, and Master Richard's sense came
back a little.

When he could see again clearly (for just now the face of the officer
and the woodwork behind him swam like images seen in water),
Master-Lieutenant had a little bottle in his hand. He bade Master
Richard look upon it and asked him what it was.

"I think it to be my Quinte Essence" said Master Richard.

"You acknowledge that then!" cries the man. "And what is Quinte
Essence?"

"It is distilled of blood" said Master Richard.

The officer set the bottle down again upon the table.

"Now sir" he said, "that is enough to cast you. None who was a Christian
man would have such a thing. Say _paternoster_." [This seems to have
been one of the tests in trials for witchcraft.]

"_Paternoster_ ..." began Master Richard.

Now, my children, I cannot explain what this signified, but Master
Richard could get no further than that. I know that I myself cannot say
any of the prayers of mass when I am away from the altar, and other
priests have told me the same of themselves, but it seems to me very
strange that a man should not at any time be able to say _paternoster_.
Whether it was that Master Richard was sick, or that the officer's face
troubled him, or whether that God Almighty desired to put him to a
grievous test, I know not. But he could not say it. He repeated over and
over again, _Paternoster ... Paternoster_, and swayed as he stood.

The officer's face grew dark and a little afraid; he blessed himself
three or four times, and breathed through his nostrils heavily. Master
Richard felt himself smiling again, and presently fell to laughing, and
as he laughed he perceived that the men who held him drew away from him
a little, and blessed themselves too.

"I cannot help it," sobbed Master Richard presently, "to think that I
cannot say _paternoster_!"

When he had recovered himself somewhat, he perceived that the two other
men were come up behind him.

Then the officer bade him turn and look, and he did so, with the tears
of that dreadful laughter still upon his cheeks.

The two men were standing there; one had a great hangman's whip of
leather in his hand, and the other a rope.

"Now, sir;" said the officer behind him, "here is enough authority for
you and me. Shall I bid them begin, or will you tell us what it is that
you have done to the King?"

Now, Master Richard had nothing to tell, as you know; he could not have
saved himself in any case from the torment, but our Lord allowed him to
have this trial, to see how he would bear himself. He might have cried
out for mercy, or told a false tale as men so often have done, but he
did neither of these things. The laughter again rose in his throat, but
he drove it down, and after looking upon the men's faces and the arms of
the man that held the whip, he turned once more to the officer.

"I have scourged myself too often," he said, "to fear such pain; and our
Saviour bore stripes for me."

Then (for the men had released him that he might turn round) he undid
the button at his throat, and threw back the kirtle, knotting the
sleeves about his waist, and so stood, naked to his middle, awaiting the
punishment.

He told me afterwards that never had he felt such lightness and freedom
as he felt at this time. His body yearned for the pain, as it yearned
for the sting and thrill of cold water on a cold day. When he was
telling me, I understood better how it was that the holy martyrs were so
merry in the midst of their torments. [Sir John relates at considerable
length the Acts of St. Laurence and St. Sebastian.]....

When the officer had looked on him a moment, he bade him turn round, and
so, I suppose, sat staring upon the youth's holy shoulders that were
covered with the old stripes that he had given himself. At last Master
Richard faced about again; and again, as he looked upon the solemn face
of the man, he began to laugh. It seemed a marvellous jest, he thought,
that so long a consideration should be given to so small a matter as a
whipping. I am glad I was not there to bear that laughter; I think it
would quite have broken my heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, my children, I cannot write what followed, but the end of it was
that the post to which Master Richard's hands were tied, and the face of
Master-Lieutenant standing behind it, and the wall behind him with the
weapons upon it, grew white and frosted to the young man's eyes, and
began to toss up and down, and a great roaring sounded in his ears. He
thought, he told me afterwards, that he was on Calvary beneath the rood,
and that the rocks were rending about him.

So he swooned clean away, and was carried back again to his prison.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now I learned afterwards that the officer had no authority such as he
pretended, but that he had sworn to his fellows that he could find out
the truth by a pretence of it, thinking Master Richard to be a poor
crazed fool who would cry out and confess at the touch of the whip.

But Master Richard did not cry out for mercy. And I hold that he passed
this first trial b