t and shadow, without feeding,
though it was the time for it; and as I came nearer I saw other beasts.
There was a wild cat crouched in the shadow of the hazels moving his
tail from side to side; a stag with his two does stood beneath a
beech-tree, and a boar looked over the bank against which stood the hut.

They did not move as I came up and looked in at the door.

This is what I saw within.

The holy youth was seated on his stool with his hands gripping the sides
and his eyes open, and he was looking towards the image of our Saviour
on the right-hand side.

You have seen his holy and uncorrupt body, but in life he was different
to that. He was not above twenty years old at this time, and of a beauty
that drew men's eyes to him. [This is the exact phrase used of Richard
Rolle, hermit of Hampole.] His hair was as you know it; a straight,
tawny, nut-brown head of hair that fell to his shoulders; and he had the
cleanest line of face that ever I have seen.

His hair came low upon his straight forehead; his nose was straight,
with fine nostrils; he had a little upper lip on which grew no hair, a
full lip beneath very short, and a round cleft chin; his eyebrows were
dark and arched; his whole face smooth and thin, and of an extraordinary
clean paleness; he had a curved throat turned to a pale brown by the
sun, though the colour of his body, I have heard it said, was as white
as milk. He was dressed always in a white kirtle beneath, and a brown
sleeveless frock over it of the colour of his hair, that came to his
ankles, and was girt with a leather band. He went barefoot, but carried
a great hat on his shoulders when he walked. He moved slowly at such
times, and bore himself upright. His hands were fine and slender, and
were burned brown like his face and his throat.

I tell you that I have never seen such a wonderful beauty in mortal man;
and his soul was yet more lovely. It is no wonder that God's Majesty
delighted in him, and that the saints came to walk with him. He was
like neither man nor woman. He had the grey eyes of a woman, the mouth
and chin of a man, the hands of a matron, and the figure of a strong
virgin. I was always a little man, as you know, and when I walked with
him, as I did sometimes, the top of my cap came just beneath his ear.

Master Richard, as I have said, was seated now on his stool, with his
knees together, and his hands gripping the sides of his seat. His chin
was a little thrust out, and he was as still as a stock. This I knew,
was the manner in which sometimes he entered into strong contemplation;
and I knew, too, that he would neither hear me nor see me till he moved.
So I watched him a moment or two, and I grew yet more afraid as I
watched; for this is what I saw:

Down from his temples across his cheeks ran little drops of sweat on to
his brown frock, and that though it was a cool evening, and his spade
was hung on its peg beneath the window. (It was the spade that you have
seen in the church with a cross-handle polished by his holy hands.)

I looked for a while, and I grew yet more afraid. It seemed to me that
there was somewhat in the cell that I could not see. I looked up at the
window but there was nothing there but the still green hazel leaves; I
looked at his bed, at the smooth mud walls and floor, at the domed roof,
and, through the hole in the centre, where the smoke escaped when he
made a fire, I could see leaves again and the evening sky. Yet the place
was full of something; there was something of energy or conflict, I knew
not which: some person was striving there.

Then I was suddenly so much afraid that I dared not stay, and I went
back again along the path, and walked at the lower end of the meadow
beside the stream.




Of the Word from God that came to Master Hermit: and of his setting out


_Vias tuas, Domine, demonstra mihi: et semitas tuas educe me._

Shew, O Lord, Thy ways to me: and teach me Thy paths.--_Ps. xxiv. 4._


II


There are, as you have learned from me, and I from Master Richard
Raynal, a trinity of natures in man. There is that by which he has to do
with the things of matter--his five wits; that by which he has to do
with God Almighty and the saints--his immortal soul and her powers; and,
for the last, that by which he has to do with men--his lower
understanding, his mind, his power of speech, and the like. Each nature
has its proper end, though each ministers to the other. With his ears
he hears God's Word, with his immortal soul he perceives God Almighty in
what is seen with the eyes; with his understanding he comprehends the
nature of flowers and the proper time to sow or reap. This trinity may
be devoted to God or the fiend.... It is not true, as some have said,
that it is only with the soul that God is perceived or served, and that
the other two are unclean. We may serve God by digging with the hands,
by talking friendly with our neighbour, and by the highest of all which
is contemplation.

This is what Master Richard did, following the Victorines but not
altogether. He strove to serve God alike in all, and I count his life,
therefore, the highest that I have 