AIREY GAMP have also avoided this
error: the method they have adopted is shrouded in mystery--I scarcely
feel competent to criticize it. MRS. GAMP says "if Zuzu makes 4 while
Lolo makes 3, Zuzu makes 6 while Lolo makes 5 (bad reasoning), while
Mimi makes 2." From this she concludes "therefore Zuzu excels in speed
by 1" (_i.e._ when compared with Lolo; but what about Mimi?). She then
compares the 3 kinds of excellence, measured on this mystic scale. JANET
takes the statement, that "Lolo makes 5 while Mimi makes 2," to prove
that "Lolo makes 3 while Mimi makes 1 and Zuzu 4" (worse reasoning than
MRS. GAMP'S), and thence concludes that "Zuzu excels in speed by 1/8"!
JANET should have been ADELINE, "mystery of mysteries!"

The fourth set actually put Mimi at the top, arranging them as "Mimi,
Zuzu, Lolo." They are MARQUIS AND CO., MARTREB, S. B. B. (first initial
scarcely legible: _may_ be meant for "J"), and STANZA.

The fifth set consist of AN ANCIENT FISH and CAMEL. These ill-assorted
comrades, by dint of foot and fin, have scrambled into the right answer,
but, as their method is wrong, of course it counts for nothing. Also AN
ANCIENT FISH has very ancient and fishlike ideas as to _how_ numbers
represent merit: she says "Lolo gains 2-1/2 on Mimi." Two and a half
_what_? Fish, fish, art thou in thy duty?

Of the five winners I put BALBUS and THE ELDER TRAVELLER slightly below
the other three--BALBUS for defective reasoning, the other for scanty
working. BALBUS gives two reasons for saying that _addition_ of marks is
_not_ the right method, and then adds "it follows that the decision must
be made by _multiplying_ the marks together." This is hardly more
logical than to say "This is not Spring: _therefore_ it must be Autumn."


CLASS LIST.

I.

   DINAH MITE.
   E. B. D. L.
   JORAM.

II.

   BALBUS.
   THE ELDER TRAVELLER.

       *       *       *       *       *

With regard to Knot V., I beg to express to VIS INERTIÆ and to any
others who, like her, understood the condition to be that _every_ marked
picture must have _three_ marks, my sincere regret that the unfortunate
phrase "_fill_ the columns with oughts and crosses" should have caused
them to waste so much time and trouble. I can only repeat that a
_literal_ interpretation of "fill" would seem to _me_ to require that
_every_ picture in the gallery should be marked. VIS INERTIÆ would have
been in the First Class if she had sent in the solution she now offers.


ANSWERS TO KNOT VII.

_Problem._--Given that one glass of lemonade, 3 sandwiches, and 7
biscuits, cost 1_s._ 2_d._; and that one glass of lemonade, 4
sandwiches, and 10 biscuits, cost 1_s._ 5_d._: find the cost of (1) a
glass of lemonade, a sandwich, and a biscuit; and (2) 2 glasses of
lemonade, 3 sandwiches, and 5 biscuits.

_Answer._--(1) 8_d._; (2) 1_s._ 7_d._

_Solution._--This is best treated algebraically. Let _x_ = the cost (in
pence) of a glass of lemonade, _y_ of a sandwich, and _z_ of a biscuit.
Then we have _x_ + 3_y_ + 7_z_ = 14, and _x_ + 4_y_ + 10_z_ = 17. And we
require the values of _x_ + _y_ + _z_, and of 2_x_ + 3_y_ + 5_z_. Now,
from _two_ equations only, we cannot find, _separately_, the values of
_three_ unknowns: certain _combinations_ of them may, however, be found.
Also we know that we can, by the help of the given equations, eliminate
2 of the 3 unknowns from the quantity whose value is required, which
will then contain one only. If, then, the required value is
ascertainable at all, it can only be by the 3rd unknown vanishing of
itself: otherwise the problem is impossible.

Let us then eliminate lemonade and sandwiches, and reduce everything to
biscuits--a state of things even more depressing than "if all the world
were apple-pie"--by subtracting the 1st equation from the 2nd, which
eliminates lemonade, and gives _y_ + 3_z_ = 3, or _y_ = 3-3_z_; and then
substituting this value of _y_ in the 1st, which gives _x_-2_z_ = 5,
_i.e._ _x_ = 5 + 2_z_. Now if we substitute these values of _x_, _y_, in
the quantities whose values are required, the first becomes (5 + 2_z_) +
(3-3_z_) + _z_, _i.e._ 8: and the second becomes 2(5 + 2_z_) + 3(3-3_z_)
+ 5_z_, _i.e._ 19. Hence the answers are (1) 8_d._, (2) 1_s._ 7_d._

       *       *       *       *       *

The above is a _universal_ method: that is, it is absolutely certain
either to produce the answer, or to prove that no answer is possible.
The question may also be solved by combining the quantities whose values
are given, so as to form those whose values are required. This is merely
a matter of ingenuity and good luck: and as it _may_ fail, even when the
thing is possible, and is of no use in proving it _im_possible, I cannot
rank this method as equal in value with the other. Even when it
succeeds, it may prove a very tedious process. Suppose the 26
competitors, who have sent in what I may call _accidental_ solutions,
had had a question to deal with where every number contained 8 or 10
digits! I suspect it would have been a case of "silvered is the raven
hair" (see "Patience") before any solution would have been hit on by
the most ingenious of them.