Produced by Chris Curnow, Carla Foust, Lindy Walsh and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.
Music transcribed by Linda Cantoni.





Transcriber's note


Minor punctuation errors have been changed without notice. Printer
errors have been changed and are listed at the end. All other
inconsistencies are as in the original.

In this version the square root symbol is indicated by [** sqrt], the
superscript by ^, and the therefore symbol by [** therefore].




A TANGLED TALE

[Decoration]

[Illustration: "AT A PACE OF SIX MILES IN THE HOUR."

_Frontispiece._]




   A TANGLED TALE

   BY

   LEWIS CARROLL

   _WITH SIX ILLUSTRATIONS_

   BY

   ARTHUR B. FROST

   Hoc meum tale quale est accipe.

   _SECOND THOUSAND._

   London
   MACMILLAN AND CO.
   1885

   [_All Rights Reserved_]




   RICHARD CLAY & SONS,
   BREAD STREET HILL, LONDON, E.C.

   _And Bungay, Suffolk_.




To My Pupil.


   Beloved pupil! Tamed by thee,
     Addish-, Subtrac-, Multiplica-tion,
   Division, Fractions, Rule of Three,
     Attest thy deft manipulation!

   Then onward! Let the voice of Fame
     From Age to Age repeat thy story,
   Till thou hast won thyself a name
     Exceeding even Euclid's glory!




PREFACE.


This Tale originally appeared as a serial in _The Monthly Packet_,
beginning in April, 1880. The writer's intention was to embody in each
Knot (like the medicine so dexterously, but ineffectually, concealed in
the jam of our early childhood) one or more mathematical questions--in
Arithmetic, Algebra, or Geometry, as the case might be--for the
amusement, and possible edification, of the fair readers of that
Magazine.

                                                           L. C.

   _October, 1885._




CONTENTS.


   KNOT                                  PAGE

      I. EXCELSIOR                          1

     II. ELIGIBLE APARTMENTS                4

    III. MAD MATHESIS                      13

     IV. THE DEAD RECKONING                19

      V. OUGHTS AND CROSSES                27

     VI. HER RADIANCY                      34

    VII. PETTY CASH                        43

   VIII. DE OMNIBUS REBUS                  52

     IX. A SERPENT WITH CORNERS            58

      X. CHELSEA BUNS                      66

   ANSWERS TO KNOT    I.                   77

      "        "     II.                   84

      "        "    III.                   90

      "        "     IV.                   96

      "        "      V.                  102

      "        "     VI.                  106

      "        "    VII.                  112

      "        "   VIII.                  132

      "        "     IX.                  135

      "        "      X.                  142




A TANGLED TALE.




KNOT I.

EXCELSIOR.


"Goblin, lead them up and down."


The ruddy glow of sunset was already fading into the sombre shadows of
night, when two travellers might have been observed swiftly--at a pace
of six miles in the hour--descending the rugged side of a mountain; the
younger bounding from crag to crag with the agility of a fawn, while his
companion, whose aged limbs seemed ill at ease in the heavy chain armour
habitually worn by tourists in that district, toiled on painfully at his
side.

As is always the case under such circumstances, the younger knight was
the first to break the silence.

"A goodly pace, I trow!" he exclaimed. "We sped not thus in the ascent!"

"Goodly, indeed!" the other echoed with a groan. "We clomb it but at
three miles in the hour."

"And on the dead level our pace is----?" the younger suggested; for he
was weak in statistics, and left all such details to his aged companion.

"Four miles in the hour," the other wearily replied. "Not an ounce
more," he added, with that love of metaphor so common in old age, "and
not a farthing less!"

"'Twas three hours past high noon when we left our hostelry," the young
man said, musingly. "We shall scarce be back by supper-time. Perchance
mine host will roundly deny us all food!"

"He will chide our tardy return," was the grave reply, "and such a
rebuke will be meet."

"A brave conceit!" cried the other, with a merry laugh. "And should we
bid him bring us yet another course, I trow his answer will be tart!"

"We shall but get our deserts," sighed the elder knight, who had never
seen a joke in his life, and was somewhat displeased at his companion's
untimely levity. "'Twill be nine of the clock," he added in an
undertone, "by the time we regain our hostelry. Full many a mile shall
we have plodded this day!"

"How many? How many?" cried the eager youth, ever athirst for knowledge.

The old man was silent.

"Tell me," he answered, after a moment's thought, "what time it was when
we stood together on yonder peak. Not exact to the minute!" he added
hastily, reading a protest in the young man's face. "An' thy guess be
within one poor half-hour of the mark, 'tis all I ask of thy mother's
son! Then will I tell thee, true to the last inch, how far we shall have
trudged betwixt three and nine of the clock."

A groan was the young man's only reply; whil