Produced by The Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Internet Archive.)









FEEDING THE MIND




UNIFORM WITH THE PRESENT VOLUME.

_1s. net each; leather, 2s. net each._

  PRAYERS WRITTEN AT VAILIMA.
    BY R. L. STEVENSON.

  A CHRISTMAS SERMON.
    BY R. L. STEVENSON.

LONDON: CHATTO & WINDUS.




  FEEDING THE MIND


  BY LEWIS CARROLL


  WITH A PREFATORY NOTE BY
  WILLIAM H. DRAPER


  LONDON
  CHATTO & WINDUS
  1907



[_All rights reserved_]




NOTE


_The history of this little sparkle from the pen of Lewis Carroll may soon
be told. It was in October of the year 1884 that he came on a visit to a
certain vicarage in Derbyshire, where he had promised, on the score of
friendship, to do what was for him a most unusual favour--to give a
lecture before a public audience._

_The writer well remembers his nervous, highly-strung manner as he stood
before the little room full of simple people, few of whom had any idea of
the world-wide reputation of that shy, slight figure before them._

_When the lecture was over, he handed the manuscript to me, saying: 'Do
what you like with it.'_

_The one for whose sake he did this kindness was not long after called_

  'Into the Silent Land.'

_So the beautifully-written MS., in his customary violet ink, has been
treasured for more than twenty years, only now and then being read over at
Christmastime to a friend or two by the study fire, always to meet with
the same welcome and glad acknowledgment that here was a genuine, though
little flame that could not have belonged to any other source but that
which all the world knew in_ Alice in Wonderland _and_ Through the
Looking-Glass.

_There may be, perhaps, many others who, gathering round a winter fire,
will be glad to read words, however few, from that bright source, and
whose memories will respond to the fresh touch of that cherished name._

_It remains to add but one or two more associations that cling to it and
make the remembrance more vivid still. While Lewis Carroll was staying in
the house, there came to call a certain genial and by no means shy Dean,
who, without realizing what he was doing, proceeded, in the presence of
other callers, to make some remark identifying Mr. Dodgson as the author
of his books._

_There followed an immense explosion immediately on the visitor's
departure, with a pathetic and serious request that, if there were any
risk of a repetition of the call, due warning might be given, and the
retreat secured._

_Probably not many readers of the immortal Alice have ever seen the
curious little whimsical paper called_

  EIGHT OR NINE WISE WORDS ABOUT LETTER-WRITING

_which their author had printed and used to send to his acquaintance,
accompanied by a small case for postage-stamps._

_It consists of forty pages, and is published by Emberlin and Son, Oxford;
and these are the contents:_

                                    PAGE
  ON STAMP-CASES,                      5
  HOW TO BEGIN A LETTER,               8
  HOW TO GO ON WITH A LETTER,         11
  HOW TO END A LETTER,                20
  ON REGISTERING CORRESPONDENCE,      22

_In this little script, also, there are the same sparkles of wit which
betoken that nimble pen, as, for example, under_ 'How to begin a Letter':

'"And never, never, dear madam" (N.B.--This remark is addressed to ladies
_only_. No _man_ would ever do such a thing), "put 'Wednesday' simply as
the date! "_That way madness lies!_"'

_From section 3_: 'How to go on with a Letter.'--'A great deal of the bad
writing in the world comes simply from writing too _quickly_. Of course
you reply, "I do it to save _time_." A very good object, no doubt, but
what right have you to do it at your friend's expense? Isn't _his_ time as
valuable as yours? Years ago I used to receive letters from a friend--and
very interesting letters too--written in one of the most atrocious hands
ever invented. It generally took me about a _week_ to read one of his
letters! I used to carry it about in my pocket and take it out at leisure
times, to puzzle over the riddles which composed it--holding it in
different positions and at different distances, till at last the meaning
of some hopeless scrawl would flash upon me, when I at once wrote down the
English under it. And when several had been thus guessed the context would
help one with the others, till at last the whole series of hieroglyphics
was deciphered. If _all_ one's friends wrote like that, life would be
entirely spent in reading their letters!'

_Rule for correspondence that has, unfortunately, become_ controversial.

'_Don't repeat yourself._--When once you have had your say fully and
clearly on a certain point, and have failed to convince your friend,
_drop that subject_. To repeat your arguments all over again, will simply
lead to his doing the same, and so you will go on like a circulating
decimal. _Did you ever know a circulating decimal come to an end?_'

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rule 5._--'If your friend makes a severe remark, either leave it
unn