ed." A few yards further on, I fell in with
Smith and to him I propounded the same riddle. He frowned over it for a
minute, and then gave it up. Meekly I faltered out the answer. "A poor
thing, sir!" Smith growled, as he turned away. "A very poor thing! I
wonder you care to repeat such rubbish!" Yet Smith's mind is, if
possible, even more colossal than Brown's.

The second Problem of Knot VI. is an example in ordinary Double Rule of
Three, whose essential feature is that the result depends on the
variation of several elements, which are so related to it that, if all
but one be constant, it varies as that one: hence, if none be constant,
it varies as their product. Thus, for example, the cubical contents of a
rectangular tank vary as its length, if breadth and depth be constant,
and so on; hence, if none be constant, it varies as the product of the
length, breadth, and depth.

When the result is not thus connected with the varying elements, the
Problem ceases to be Double Rule of Three and often becomes one of great
complexity.

To illustrate this, let us take two candidates for a prize, _A_ and _B_,
who are to compete in French, German, and Italian:

(_a_) Let it be laid down that the result is to depend on their
_relative_ knowledge of each subject, so that, whether their marks, for
French, be "1, 2" or "100, 200," the result will be the same: and let it
also be laid down that, if they get equal marks on 2 papers, the final
marks are to have the same ratio as those of the 3rd paper. This is a
case of ordinary Double Rule of Three. We multiply _A_'s 3 marks
together, and do the same for _B_. Note that, if _A_ gets a single "0,"
his final mark is "0," even if he gets full marks for 2 papers while _B_
gets only one mark for each paper. This of course would be very unfair
on _A_, though a correct solution under the given conditions.

(_b_) The result is to depend, as before, on _relative_ knowledge; but
French is to have twice as much weight as German or Italian. This is an
unusual form of question. I should be inclined to say "the resulting
ratio is to be nearer to the French ratio than if we multiplied as in
(_a_), and so much nearer that it would be necessary to use the other
multipliers _twice_ to produce the same result as in (_a_):" _e.g._ if
the French Ratio were 9/10, and the others 4/9, 1/9 so that the ultimate
ratio, by method (_a_), would be 2/45, I should multiply instead by 2/3,
1/3, giving the result, 1/3 which is nearer to 9/10 than if he had used
method (_a_).

(_c_) The result is to depend on _actual_ amount of knowledge of the 3
subjects collectively. Here we have to ask two questions. (1) What is
to be the "unit" (_i.e._ "standard to measure by") in each subject? (2)
Are these units to be of equal, or unequal value? The usual "unit" is
the knowledge shown by answering the whole paper correctly; calling this
"100," all lower amounts are represented by numbers between "0" and
"100." Then, if these units are to be of equal value, we simply add
_A_'s 3 marks together, and do the same for _B_.

(_d_) The conditions are the same as (_c_), but French is to have double
weight. Here we simply double the French marks, and add as before.

(_e_) French is to have such weight, that, if other marks be equal, the
ultimate ratio is to be that of the French paper, so that a "0" in this
would swamp the candidate: but the other two subjects are only to affect
the result collectively, by the amount of knowledge shown, the two being
reckoned of equal value. Here I should add _A_'s German and Italian
marks together, and multiply by his French mark.

But I need not go on: the problem may evidently be set with many varying
conditions, each requiring its own method of solution. The Problem in
Knot VI. was meant to belong to variety (_a_), and to make this clear, I
inserted the following passage:

"Usually the competitors differ in one point only. Thus, last year, Fifi
and Gogo made the same number of scarves in the trial week, and they
were equally light; but Fifi's were twice as warm as Gogo's, and she was
pronounced twice as good."

What I have said will suffice, I hope, as an answer to BALBUS, who holds
that (_a_) and (_c_) are the only possible varieties of the problem, and
that to say "We cannot use addition, therefore we must be intended to
use multiplication," is "no more illogical than, from knowledge that one
was not born in the night, to infer that he was born in the daytime";
and also to FIFEE, who says "I think a little more consideration will
show you that our 'error of _adding_ the proportional numbers together
for each candidate instead of _multiplying_' is no error at all." Why,
even if addition _had_ been the right method to use, not one of the
writers (I speak from memory) showed any consciousness of the necessity
of fixing a "unit" for each subject. "No error at all!" They were
positively steeped in error!

One correspondent (I do not name him, as the communication is not quite
friendly in tone) writes thus:--"I wish to add, very respectfully, that
I think it would be in better taste if you were to abstain from the