at requires
only 14. CAIUS and VALENTINE deserve special mention as the only two who
have supplied genealogies.


CLASS LIST.

I.

   BEE.
   CAIUS.
   M. M.
   MATTHEW MATTICKS.
   OLD CAT.
   VALENTINE.

II.

   BOG-OAK.
   BRADSHAW OF THE FUTURE.

III.

   SEA-BREEZE.


§ 2. THE LODGINGS.

_Problem._--"A Square has 20 doors on each side, which contains 21 equal
parts. They are numbered all round, beginning at one corner. From which
of the four, Nos. 9, 25, 52, 73, is the sum of the distances, to the
other three, least?"

_Answer._--"From No. 9."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Let A be No. 9, B No. 25, C No. 52, and D No. 73.

   Then AB = [** sqrt](12^{2} + 5^{2}) = [** sqrt]169 = 13;
   AC = 21;
   AD = [** sqrt](9^{2} + 8^{2}) = [** sqrt]145 = 12 +
   (N.B. _i.e._ "between 12 and 13.")
   BC = [** sqrt](16^{2} + 12^{2}) = [** sqrt]400 = 20;
   BD = [** sqrt](3^{2} + 21^{2}) = [** sqrt]450 = 21+;
   CD = [** sqrt](9^{2} + 13^{2}) = [** sqrt]250 = 15+;


Hence sum of distances from A is between 46 and 47; from B, between 54
and 55; from C, between 56 and 57; from D, between 48 and 51. (Why not
"between 48 and 49"? Make this out for yourselves.) Hence the sum is
least for A.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twenty-five solutions have been received. Of these, 15 must be marked
"0," 5 are partly right, and 5 right. Of the 15, I may dismiss
ALPHABETICAL PHANTOM, BOG-OAK, DINAH MITE, FIFEE, GALANTHUS NIVALIS
MAJOR (I fear the cold spring has blighted our SNOWDROP), GUY, H.M.S.
PINAFORE, JANET, and VALENTINE with the simple remark that they insist
on the unfortunate lodgers _keeping to the pavement_. (I used the words
"crossed to Number Seventy-three" for the special purpose of showing
that _short cuts_ were possible.) SEA-BREEZE does the same, and adds
that "the result would be the same" even if they crossed the Square, but
gives no proof of this. M. M. draws a diagram, and says that No. 9 is
the house, "as the diagram shows." I cannot see _how_ it does so. OLD
CAT assumes that the house _must_ be No. 9 or No. 73. She does not
explain how she estimates the distances. Bee's Arithmetic is faulty: she
makes [** sqrt]169 + [** sqrt]442 + [** sqrt]130 = 741. (I suppose you
mean [** sqrt]741, which would be a little nearer the truth. But roots
cannot be added in this manner. Do you think [** sqrt]9 + [** sqrt]16 is
25, or even [** sqrt]25?) But AYR'S state is more perilous still: she
draws illogical conclusions with a frightful calmness. After pointing
out (rightly) that AC is less than BD she says, "therefore the nearest
house to the other three must be A or C." And again, after pointing out
(rightly) that B and D are both within the half-square containing A,
she says "therefore" AB + AD must be less than BC + CD. (There is no
logical force in either "therefore." For the first, try Nos. 1, 21, 60,
70: this will make your premiss true, and your conclusion false.
Similarly, for the second, try Nos. 1, 30, 51, 71.)

Of the five partly-right solutions, RAGS AND TATTERS and MAD HATTER (who
send one answer between them) make No. 25 6 units from the corner
instead of 5. CHEAM, E. R. D. L., and MEGGY POTTS leave openings at the
corners of the Square, which are not in the _data_: moreover CHEAM gives
values for the distances without any hint that they are only
_approximations_. CROPHI AND MOPHI make the bold and unfounded
assumption that there were really 21 houses on each side, instead of 20
as stated by Balbus. "We may assume," they add, "that the doors of Nos.
21, 42, 63, 84, are invisible from the centre of the Square"! What is
there, I wonder, that CROPHI AND MOPHI would _not_ assume?

Of the five who are wholly right, I think BRADSHAW OF THE FUTURE, CAIUS,
CLIFTON C., and MARTREB deserve special praise for their full
_analytical_ solutions. MATTHEW MATTICKS picks out No. 9, and proves it
to be the right house in two ways, very neatly and ingeniously, but
_why_ he picks it out does not appear. It is an excellent _synthetical_
proof, but lacks the analysis which the other four supply.


CLASS LIST.

I.

   BRADSHAW OF THE FUTURE
   CAIUS.
   CLIFTON C.
   MARTREB.

II.

MATTHEW MATTICKS.

III.

   CHEAM.
   CROPHI AND MOPHI.
   E. R. D. L.
   MEGGY POTTS.
   {RAGS AND TATTERS.
   {MAD HATTER.


A remonstrance has reached me from SCRUTATOR on the subject of KNOT I.,
which he declares was "no problem at all." "Two questions," he says,
"are put. To solve one there is no data: the other answers itself." As
to the first point, SCRUTATOR is mistaken; there _are_ (not "is") data
sufficient to answer the question. As to the other, it is interesting to
know that the question "answers itself," and I am sure it does the
question great credit: still I fear I cannot enter it on the list of
winners, as this competition is only open to human beings.


ANSWERS TO KNOT III.

_Problem._--(1) "Two travellers, starting at the same time, went
opposite ways round a circular railway. Trains start each way every 15
minutes, the easterly ones going round in 3 hours, the westerly in 2.
How many trains did each meet on the wa