the process by which she got the
answer is so meagre that, like the nursery tale of "Jack-a-Minory" (I
trust I. E. A. will be merciful to the spelling), it is scarcely to be
distinguished from "zero."


CLASS LIST.

I.

   GUY.
   OLD CAT.
   SEA-BREEZE.

II.

   AYR.
   BRADSHAW OF THE FUTURE.
   F. LEE.
   H. VERNON.

III.

CAT.


ANSWERS TO KNOT VI.

_Problem 1._--_A_ and _B_ began the year with only 1,000_l._ a-piece.
They borrowed nought; they stole nought. On the next New-Year's Day they
had 60,000_l._ between them. How did they do it?

_Solution._--They went that day to the Bank of England. _A_ stood in
front of it, while _B_ went round and stood behind it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two answers have been received, both worthy of much honour. ADDLEPATE
makes them borrow "0" and steal "0," and uses both cyphers by putting
them at the right-hand end of the 1,000_l._, thus producing 100,000_l._,
which is well over the mark. But (or to express it in Latin) AT SPES
INFRACTA has solved it even more ingeniously: with the first cypher she
turns the "1" of the 1,000_l._ into a "9," and adds the result to the
original sum, thus getting 10,000_l._: and in this, by means of the
other "0," she turns the "1" into a "6," thus hitting the exact
60,000_l._


CLASS LIST

I.

AT SPES INFRACTA.

II.

ADDLEPATE.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Problem 2._--_L_ makes 5 scarves, while _M_ makes 2: _Z_ makes 4 while
_L_ makes 3. Five scarves of _Z_'s weigh one of _L_'s; 5 of _M_'s weigh
3 of _Z_'s. One of _M_'s is as warm as 4 of _Z_'s: and one of _L_'s as
warm as 3 of _M_'s. Which is best, giving equal weight in the result to
rapidity of work, lightness, and warmth?

_Answer._--The order is _M_, _L_, _Z_.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Solution._--As to rapidity (other things being constant) _L_'s merit is
to _M_'s in the ratio of 5 to 2: _Z_'s to _L_'s in the ratio of 4 to 3.
In order to get one set of 3 numbers fulfilling these conditions, it is
perhaps simplest to take the one that occurs _twice_ as unity, and
reduce the others to fractions: this gives, for _L_, _M_, and _Z_, the
marks 1, 2/5, 4/3. In estimating for _lightness_, we observe that the
greater the weight, the less the merit, so that _Z_'s merit is to _L_'s
as 5 to 1. Thus the marks for _lightness_ are 1/5, 5/3, 1. And
similarly, the marks for warmth are 3, 1, 1/4. To get the total result,
we must _multiply_ _L_'s 3 marks together, and do the same for _M_ and
for _Z_. The final numbers are 1 × 1/5 × 3, 2/5 × 5/3 × 1, 4/3 × 1 ×
1/4; _i.e._ 3/5, 2/3, 1/3; _i.e._ multiplying throughout by 15 (which
will not alter the proportion), 9, 10, 5; showing the order of merit to
be _M_, _L_, _Z_.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twenty-nine answers have been received, of which five are right, and
twenty-four wrong. These hapless ones have all (with three exceptions)
fallen into the error of _adding_ the proportional numbers together, for
each candidate, instead of _multiplying_. _Why_ the latter is right,
rather than the former, is fully proved in text-books, so I will not
occupy space by stating it here: but it can be _illustrated_ very easily
by the case of length, breadth, and depth. Suppose _A_ and _B_ are rival
diggers of rectangular tanks: the amount of work done is evidently
measured by the number of _cubical feet_ dug out. Let _A_ dig a tank 10
feet long, 10 wide, 2 deep: let _B_ dig one 6 feet long, 5 wide, 10
deep. The cubical contents are 200, 300; _i.e._ _B_ is best digger in
the ratio of 3 to 2. Now try marking for length, width, and depth,
separately; giving a maximum mark of 10 to the best in each contest, and
then _adding_ the results!

Of the twenty-four malefactors, one gives no working, and so has no real
claim to be named; but I break the rule for once, in deference to its
success in Problem 1: he, she, or it, is ADDLEPATE. The other
twenty-three may be divided into five groups.

First and worst are, I take it, those who put the rightful winner
_last_; arranging them as "Lolo, Zuzu, Mimi." The names of these
desperate wrong-doers are AYR, BRADSHAW OF THE FUTURE, FURZE-BUSH and
POLLUX (who send a joint answer), GREYSTEAD, GUY, OLD HEN, and SIMPLE
SUSAN. The latter was _once_ best of all; the Old Hen has taken
advantage of her simplicity, and beguiled her with the chaff which was
the bane of her own chickenhood.

Secondly, I point the finger of scorn at those who have put the worst
candidate at the top; arranging them as "Zuzu, Mimi, Lolo." They are
GRAECIA, M. M., OLD CAT, and R. E. X. "'Tis Greece, but----."

The third set have avoided both these enormities, and have even
succeeded in putting the worst last, their answer being "Lolo, Mimi,
Zuzu." Their names are AYR (who also appears among the "quite too too"),
CLIFTON C., F. B., FIFEE, GRIG, JANET, and MRS. SAIREY GAMP. F. B. has
not fallen into the common error; she _multiplies_ together the
proportionate numbers she gets, but in getting them she goes wrong, by
reckoning warmth as a _de_-merit. Possibly she is "Freshly Burnt," or
comes "From Bombay." JANET and MRS. S