red of the
taste. Then a slice of science; but you know at once what the result of
that will be--ah, of course, much too tough for _his_ teeth. And so on
through the whole weary round, which he tried (and failed in) yesterday,
and will probably try and fail in to-morrow.

Mr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, in his very amusing book, 'The Professor at the
Breakfast Table,' gives the following rule for knowing whether a human
being is young or old: 'The crucial experiment is this--offer a bulky bun
to the suspected individual just ten minutes before dinner. If this is
easily accepted and devoured, the fact of youth is established.' He tells
us that a human being, 'if young, will eat anything at any hour of the day
or night.'

To ascertain the healthiness of the _mental_ appetite of a human animal,
place in its hands a short, well-written, but not exciting treatise on
some popular subject--a mental _bun_, in fact. If it is read with eager
interest and perfect attention, _and if the reader can answer questions on
the subject afterwards_, the mind is in first-rate working order. If it be
politely laid down again, or perhaps lounged over for a few minutes, and
then, 'I can't read this stupid book! Would you hand me the second volume
of "The Mysterious Murder"?' you may be equally sure that there is
something wrong in the mental digestion.

If this paper has given you any useful hints on the important subject of
reading, and made you see that it is one's duty no less than one's
interest to 'read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest' the good books that
fall in your way, its purpose will be fulfilled.


BILLING AND SONS, LTD., PRINTERS, GUILDFORD



F