elightful remark "therefore 90 per cent. have
two of something," recalling to one's memory that fortunate monarch,
with whom Xerxes was so much pleased that "he gave him ten of
everything!"), S. S. G., and TOKIO.

BRADSHAW OF THE FUTURE and T. R. do the question in a piecemeal
fashion--on the principle that the 70 per cent. and the 75 per cent.,
though commenced at opposite ends of the 100, must overlap by _at least_
45 per cent.; and so on. This is quite correct working, but not, I
think, quite the best way of doing it.

The other five competitors will, I hope, feel themselves sufficiently
glorified by being placed in the first class, without my composing a
Triumphal Ode for each!


CLASS LIST.

I.

   OLD CAT.
   OLD HEN.
   POLAR STAR.
   SIMPLE SUSAN.
   WHITE SUGAR.

II.

   BRADSHAW OF THE FUTURE.
   T. R.

III.

   ALGERNON BRAY.
   DINAH MITE.
   G. S. C.
   JANE E.
   J. D. W.
   MAGPIE.
   S. S. G.
   TOKIO.


§ 2. CHANGE OF DAY.

I must postpone, _sine die_, the geographical problem--partly because I
have not yet received the statistics I am hoping for, and partly because
I am myself so entirely puzzled by it; and when an examiner is himself
dimly hovering between a second class and a third how is he to decide
the position of others?


§ 3. THE SONS' AGES.

_Problem._--"At first, two of the ages are together equal to the third.
A few years afterwards, two of them are together double of the third.
When the number of years since the first occasion is two-thirds of the
sum of the ages on that occasion, one age is 21. What are the other two?

_Answer._--"15 and 18."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Solution._--Let the ages at first be _x_, _y_, (_x_ + _y_). Now, if _a_
+ _b_ = 2_c_, then (_a_-_n_) + (_b_-_n_) = 2(_c_-_n_), whatever be the
value of _n_. Hence the second relationship, if _ever_ true, was
_always_ true. Hence it was true at first. But it cannot be true that
_x_ and _y_ are together double of (_x_ + _y_). Hence it must be true of
(_x_ + _y_), together with _x_ or _y_; and it does not matter which we
take. We assume, then, (_x_ + _y_) + _x_ = 2_y_; _i.e._ _y_ = 2_x_.
Hence the three ages were, at first, _x_, 2_x_, 3_x_; and the number of
years, since that time is two-thirds of 6_x_, _i.e._ is 4_x_. Hence the
present ages are 5_x_, 6_x_, 7_x_. The ages are clearly _integers_,
since this is only "the year when one of my sons comes of age." Hence
7_x_ = 21, _x_ = 3, and the other ages are 15, 18.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eighteen answers have been received. One of the writers merely asserts
that the first occasion was 12 years ago, that the ages were then 9, 6,
and 3; and that on the second occasion they were 14, 11, and 8! As a
Roman father, I _ought_ to withhold the name of the rash writer; but
respect for age makes me break the rule: it is THREE SCORE AND TEN. JANE
E. also asserts that the ages at first were 9, 6, 3: then she calculates
the present ages, leaving the _second_ occasion unnoticed. OLD HEN is
nearly as bad; she "tried various numbers till I found one that fitted
_all_ the conditions"; but merely scratching up the earth, and pecking
about, is _not_ the way to solve a problem, oh venerable bird! And close
after OLD HEN prowls, with hungry eyes, OLD CAT, who calmly assumes, to
begin with, that the son who comes of age is the _eldest_. Eat your
bird, Puss, for you will get nothing from me!

There are yet two zeroes to dispose of. MINERVA assumes that, on _every_
occasion, a son comes of age; and that it is only such a son who is
"tipped with gold." Is it wise thus to interpret "now, my boys,
calculate your ages, and you shall have the money"? BRADSHAW OF THE
FUTURE says "let" the ages at first be 9, 6, 3, then assumes that the
second occasion was 6 years afterwards, and on these baseless
assumptions brings out the right answers. Guide _future_ travellers, an
thou wilt: thou art no Bradshaw for _this_ Age!

Of those who win honours, the merely "honourable" are two. DINAH MITE
ascertains (rightly) the relationship between the three ages at first,
but then _assumes_ one of them to be "6," thus making the rest of her
solution tentative. M. F. C. does the algebra all right up to the
conclusion that the present ages are 5_z_, 6_z_, and 7_z_; it then
assumes, without giving any reason, that 7_z_ = 21.

Of the more honourable, DELTA attempts a novelty--to discover _which_
son comes of age by elimination: it assumes, successively, that it is
the middle one, and that it is the youngest; and in each case it
_apparently_ brings out an absurdity. Still, as the proof contains the
following bit of algebra, "63 = 7_x_ + 4_y_; [** therefore] 21 = _x_ + 4
sevenths of _y_," I trust it will admit that its proof is not _quite_
conclusive. The rest of its work is good. MAGPIE betrays the deplorable
tendency of her tribe--to appropriate any stray conclusion she comes
across, without having any _strict_ logical right to it. Assuming _A_,
_B_, _C_, as the ages at first, and _D_ as the number of the years that
have elapsed since then, she finds (rightly) the 3 equations, 2_A_ =
_B_, _C_ = _B_ +