r any other
epoch) seemed likely to "restore" them--to that peace of mind which had
once been theirs ere ever these problems had swooped upon them, and
crushed them with a load of unfathomable mystery!

"It's hardly fair," muttered Hugh, "to give us such a jumble as this to
work out!"

"Fair?" Clara echoed, bitterly. "Well!"

And to all my readers I can but repeat the last words of gentle Clara--

   FARE-WELL!




APPENDIX.

     "A knot!" said Alice. "Oh, do let me help to undo it!"


ANSWERS TO KNOT I.

_Problem._--"Two travellers spend from 3 o'clock till 9 in walking along
a level road, up a hill, and home again: their pace on the level being 4
miles an hour, up hill 3, and down hill 6. Find distance walked: also
(within half an hour) time of reaching top of hill."

_Answer._--"24 miles: half-past 6."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Solution._--A level mile takes 1/4 of an hour, up hill 1/3, down hill
1/6. Hence to go and return over the same mile, whether on the level or
on the hill-side, takes 1/2 an hour. Hence in 6 hours they went 12 miles
out and 12 back. If the 12 miles out had been nearly all level, they
would have taken a little over 3 hours; if nearly all up hill, a little
under 4. Hence 3-1/2 hours must be within 1/2 an hour of the time taken
in reaching the peak; thus, as they started at 3, they got there within
1/2 an hour of 1/2 past 6.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twenty-seven answers have come in. Of these, 9 are right, 16 partially
right, and 2 wrong. The 16 give the _distance_ correctly, but they have
failed to grasp the fact that the top of the hill might have been
reached at _any_ moment between 6 o'clock and 7.

The two wrong answers are from GERTY VERNON and A NIHILIST. The former
makes the distance "23 miles," while her revolutionary companion puts it
at "27." GERTY VERNON says "they had to go 4 miles along the plain, and
got to the foot of the hill at 4 o'clock." They _might_ have done so, I
grant; but you have no ground for saying they _did_ so. "It was 7-1/2
miles to the top of the hill, and they reached that at 1/4 before 7
o'clock." Here you go wrong in your arithmetic, and I must, however
reluctantly, bid you farewell. 7-1/2 miles, at 3 miles an hour, would
_not_ require 2-3/4 hours. A NIHILIST says "Let _x_ denote the whole
number of miles; _y_ the number of hours to hill-top; [** therefore] 3_y_ =
number of miles to hill-top, and _x_-3_y_ = number of miles on the other
side." You bewilder me. The other side of _what_? "Of the hill," you
say. But then, how did they get home again? However, to accommodate your
views we will build a new hostelry at the foot of the hill on the
opposite side, and also assume (what I grant you is _possible_, though
it is not _necessarily_ true) that there was no level road at all. Even
then you go wrong.

You say

   "_y_ = 6 - (_x_ - 3_y_)/6, ..... (i);

   _x_/4-1/2 = 6              ..... (ii)."

I grant you (i), but I deny (ii): it rests on the assumption that to go
_part_ of the time at 3 miles an hour, and the rest at 6 miles an hour,
comes to the same result as going the _whole_ time at 4-1/2 miles an
hour. But this would only be true if the "_part_" were an exact _half_,
i.e., if they went up hill for 3 hours, and down hill for the other 3:
which they certainly did _not_ do.

The sixteen, who are partially right, are AGNES BAILEY, F. K., FIFEE, G.
E. B., H. P., KIT, M. E. T., MYSIE, A MOTHER'S SON, NAIRAM, A
REDRUTHIAN, A SOCIALIST, SPEAR MAIDEN, T. B. C, VIS INERTIÆ, and YAK. Of
these, F. K., FIFEE, T. B. C, and VIS INERTIÆ do not attempt the second
part at all. F. K. and H. P. give no working. The rest make particular
assumptions, such as that there was no level road--that there were 6
miles of level road--and so on, all leading to _particular_ times being
fixed for reaching the hill-top. The most curious assumption is that of
AGNES BAILEY, who says "Let _x_ = number of hours occupied in ascent;
then _x_/2 = hours occupied in descent; and 4_x_/3 = hours occupied on
the level." I suppose you were thinking of the relative _rates_, up
hill and on the level; which we might express by saying that, if they
went x miles up hill in a certain time, they would go 4_x_/3 miles on
the level _in the same time_. You have, in fact, assumed that they took
_the same time_ on the level that they took in ascending the hill. FIFEE
assumes that, when the aged knight said they had gone "four miles in the
hour" on the level, he meant that four miles was the _distance_ gone,
not merely the rate. This would have been--if FIFEE will excuse the
slang expression--a "sell," ill-suited to the dignity of the hero.

And now "descend, ye classic Nine!" who have solved the whole problem,
and let me sing your praises. Your names are BLITHE, E. W., L. B., A
MARLBOROUGH BOY, O. V. L., PUTNEY WALKER, ROSE, SEA BREEZE, SIMPLE
SUSAN, and MONEY SPINNER. (These last two I count as one, as they send a
joint answer.) ROSE and SIMPLE SUSAN and CO. do not actually state that
the hill-top was reached some time between 6 and 7, but, as they have
clearly grasped the fact that 