The Project Gutenberg eBook, American Notes for General Circulation, by
Charles Dickens, Illustrated by Marcus Stone


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org





Title: American Notes for General Circulation


Author: Charles Dickens



Release Date: February 18, 2013  [eBook #675]
[This file was first posted on July 18, 1996]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK AMERICAN NOTES FOR GENERAL
CIRCULATION***


Transcribed from the 1913 Chapman & Hall, Ltd. edition by David Price,
email ccx074@pglaf.org

                           [Picture: Emigrants]





                              AMERICAN NOTES
                                   FOR
                           GENERAL CIRCULATION
                                   AND
                         PICTURES FROM ITALY {1}


                                    BY
                             CHARLES DICKENS

                                * * * * *

                         WITH 8 ILLUSTRATIONS BY
                            MARCUS STONE, R.A.

                                * * * * *

                                  LONDON
                           CHAPMAN & HALL, LTD.
                                   1913

                                * * * * *

                           I DEDICATE THIS BOOK
                                    TO
                          THOSE FRIENDS OF MINE
                                IN AMERICA
                   WHO, GIVING ME A WELCOME I MUST EVER
                     GRATEFULLY AND PROUDLY REMEMBER,
                            LEFT MY JUDGEMENT
                                  FREE;
                 AND WHO, LOVING THEIR COUNTRY, CAN BEAR
                     THE TRUTH, WHEN IT IS TOLD GOOD
                           HUMOUREDLY, AND IN A
                               KIND SPIRIT.

                                * * * * *




PREFACE TO THE FIRST CHEAP EDITION OF “AMERICAN NOTES”


IT is nearly eight years since this book was first published.  I present
it, unaltered, in the Cheap Edition; and such of my opinions as it
expresses, are quite unaltered too.

My readers have opportunities of judging for themselves whether the
influences and tendencies which I distrust in America, have any existence
not in my imagination.  They can examine for themselves whether there has
been anything in the public career of that country during these past
eight years, or whether there is anything in its present position, at
home or abroad, which suggests that those influences and tendencies
really do exist.  As they find the fact, they will judge me.  If they
discern any evidences of wrong-going in any direction that I have
indicated, they will acknowledge that I had reason in what I wrote.  If
they discern no such thing, they will consider me altogether mistaken.

Prejudiced, I never have been otherwise than in favour of the United
States.  No visitor can ever have set foot on those shores, with a
stronger faith in the Republic than I had, when I landed in America.

I purposely abstain from extending these observations to any length.  I
have nothing to defend, or to explain away.  The truth is the truth; and
neither childish absurdities, nor unscrupulous contradictions, can make
it otherwise.  The earth would still move round the sun, though the whole
Catholic Church said No.

I have many friends in America, and feel a grateful interest in the
country.  To represent me as viewing it with ill-nature, animosity, or
partisanship, is merely to do a very foolish thing, which is always a
very easy one; and which I have disregarded for eight years, and could
disregard for eighty more.

LONDON, _June_ 22, 1850.




PREFACE TO THE “CHARLES DICKENS” EDITION OF “AMERICAN NOTES”


MY readers have opportunities of judging for themselves whether the
influences and tendencies which I distrusted in America, had, at that
time, any existence but in my imagination.  They can examine for
themselves whether there has been anything in the public career of that
country since, at home or abroad, which suggests that those influences
and tendencies really did exist.  As they find the fact, they will judge
me.  If they discern any evidences of wrong-going, in any direction that
I have indicated, they will acknowledge that I had reason in what I
wrote.  If they discern no such indications, they will consider me
altogether mistaken—but not wilfully.

Prejudiced, I am not, and never have been, otherwise than in favour of
the United States.  I have many friends in America, I feel a grateful
interest in the country, I hope and believe it will successfully work out
a problem of the highest importance to the whole human race.  To
represent me as viewing AMERICA with ill-nature, coldness, or animosity,
is merely to do a very foolish thing: which is always a very easy one.




CONTENTS

DEDICATION OF “AMERICAN NOTES”                 