n, whether he acknowledges it or not."

                                               "_San Francisco Star._"

"Mrs. Gilman has presented in this work the results of her thought,
study, and observation of the much debated question of the relation of
man to woman and of woman to man. The subject is developed with much
wise argument and wholesome sense of humor."

                                                    "_The Craftsman._"

"Mrs. Gilman has applied her theory with much cleverness, consistency
and logical thinking."

                                             "_Chicago Evening Post._"

By mail of Charlton Co., $1.10


"IN THIS OUR WORLD"

There is a joyous superabundance of life, of strength, of health, in
Mrs. Gilman's verse, which seems born of the glorious sunshine and
rich gardens of California.

                                                 --_Washington Times._

The freshness, charm and geniality of her satire temporarily convert
us to her most advanced views.

                                                   --_Boston Journal._

The poet of women and for women, a new and prophetic voice in the
world. Montaigne would have rejoiced in her.

                                                   --_Mexican Herald._

By mail of Charlton Co., =$1.25=.


"THE HOME"

Indeed, Mrs. Gilman has not intended her book so much as a treatise
for scholars as a surgical operation on the popular mind.

                                             --_The Critic, New York._

Whatever Mrs. Gilman writes, people read--approving or protesting,
still they read.

                                    --_Republican, Springfield, Mass._

Full of thought and of new and striking suggestions. Tells what the
average woman has and ought not keep, what she is and ought not be.

                                                 --_Literature World._

But it is safe to say that no more stimulating arraignment has ever
before taken shape and that the argument of the book is noble, and, on
the whole, convincing.

                                        --_Congregationalist, Boston._

The name of this author is a guarantee of logical reasoning, sound
economical principles and progressive thought.

                                          --_The Craftsman, Syracuse._

By mail of Charlton Co., =$1.00=.

"The Home" has been translated into Swedish.


"WOMEN AND ECONOMICS"

Since John Stuart Mill's essay there has been no book dealing with the
whole position of women to approach it in originality of conception
and brilliancy of exposition.

                                                 --_London Chronicle._

The most significant utterance on the subject since Mill's "Subjection
of Women."

                                                       --_The Nation._

It is the strongest book on the woman question that has yet been
published.

                                              --_Minneapolis Journal._

A remarkable book. A work on economics that has not a dull page,--the
work of a woman about women that has not a flippant word.

                                                --_Boston Transcript._

This book unites in a remarkable degree the charm of a brilliantly
written essay with the inevitable logic of a proposition of Euclid.
Nothing that we have read for many a long day can approach in
clearness of conception, in power of arrangement, and in lucidity of
expression the argument developed in the first seven chapters of this
remarkable book.

                                      --_Westminster Gazette, London._

Will be widely read and discussed as the cleverest, fairest, most
forcible presentation of the view of the rapidly increasing group who
look with favor on the extension of industrial employment to women.

                                      --_Political Science Quarterly._

By mail of Charlton Co., =$1.50=.

"Women and Economics" has been translated into German, Dutch, Italian,
Hungarian, Russian and Japanese.


"CONCERNING CHILDREN"

WANTED:--A philanthropist, to give a copy to every English-speaking
parent.

                                              --_The Times, New York._

Should be read by every mother in the land.

                                              --_The Press, New York._

Wholesomely disturbing book that deserves to be read for its own sake.

                                                     --_Chicago Dial._

By mail of Charlton Co., =$1.25=.

"Concerning Children" has been translated into German, Dutch and
Yiddish.


"THE YELLOW WALLPAPER"

Worthy of a place beside some of the weird masterpieces of Hawthorne
and Poe.

                                                       --_Literature._

As a short story it stands among the most powerful produced in America.

                                                     --_Chicago News._

By mail of Charlton Co., =$0.50=.


"HUMAN WORK"

Charlotte Perkins Gilman has added a third to her great trilogy of
books on economic subjects as they affect our daily life, particularly
in the home. Mrs. Gilman is by far the most brilliant woman writer of
our day, and th