e paid homage on that living
altar where the back changes name. _(With sudden fervour)_ For why
should the dainty scented jewelled hand, the hand that rules...?

_(Figures wind serpenting in slow woodland pattern around the treestems,
cooeeing)_

THE VOICE OF KITTY: _(In the thicket)_ Show us one of them cushions.

THE VOICE OF FLORRY: Here.

_(A grouse wings clumsily through the underwood.)_

THE VOICE OF LYNCH: _(In the thicket)_ Whew! Piping hot!

THE VOICE OF ZOE: _(From the thicket)_ Came from a hot place.

THE VOICE OF VIRAG: _(A birdchief, bluestreaked and feathered in war
panoply with his assegai, striding through a crackling canebrake over
beechmast and acorns)_ Hot! Hot! Ware Sitting Bull!

BLOOM: It overpowers me. The warm impress of her warm form. Even to sit
where a woman has sat, especially with divaricated thighs, as though to
grant the last favours, most especially with previously well uplifted
white sateen coatpans. So womanly, full. It fills me full.

THE WATERFALL:

     _Phillaphulla Poulaphouca
     Poulaphouca Poulaphouca._

THE YEWS: Ssh! Sister, speak!

THE NYMPH: _(Eyeless, in nun's white habit, coif and hugewinged wimple,
softly, with remote eyes)_ Tranquilla convent. Sister Agatha. Mount
Carmel. The apparitions of Knock and Lourdes. No more desire. _(She
reclines her head, sighing)_ Only the ethereal. Where dreamy creamy gull
waves o'er the waters dull.

_(Bloom half rises. His back trouserbutton snaps.)_

THE BUTTON: Bip!

_(Two sluts of the coombe dance rainily by, shawled, yelling flatly.)_

THE SLUTS:

     O, Leopold lost the pin of his drawers
     He didn't know what to do,
     To keep it up,
     To keep it up.

BLOOM: _(Coldly)_ You have broken the spell. The last straw. If there
were only ethereal where would you all be, postulants and novices? Shy
but willing like an ass pissing.

THE YEWS: _(Their silverfoil of leaves precipitating, their skinny arms
aging and swaying)_ Deciduously!

THE NYMPH: _(Her features hardening, gropes in the folds of her habit)_
Sacrilege! To attempt my virtue! _(A large moist stain appears on her
robe)_ Sully my innocence! You are not fit to touch the garment of a
pure woman. _(She clutches again in her robe)_ Wait. Satan, you'll sing
no more lovesongs. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. _(She draws a poniard and,
clad in the sheathmail of an elected knight of nine, strikes at his
loins)_ Nekum!

BLOOM: _(Starts up, seizes her hand)_ Hoy! Nebrakada! Cat o' nine lives!
Fair play, madam. No pruningknife. The fox and the grapes, is it? What
do you lack with your barbed wire? Crucifix not thick enough? _(He
clutches her veil)_ A holy abbot you want or Brophy, the lame gardener,
or the spoutless statue of the watercarrier, or good mother Alphonsus,
eh Reynard?

THE NYMPH: _(With a cry flees from him unveiled, her plaster cast
cracking, a cloud of stench escaping from the cracks)_ Poli...!

BLOOM: _(Calls after her)_ As if you didn't get it on the double
yourselves. No jerks and multiple mucosities all over you. I tried it.
Your strength our weakness. What's our studfee? What will you pay on
the nail? You fee mendancers on the Riviera, I read. _(The fleeing nymph
raises a keen)_ Eh? I have sixteen years of black slave labour behind
me. And would a jury give me five shillings alimony tomorrow, eh? Fool
someone else, not me. _(He sniffs)_ Rut. Onions. Stale. Sulphur. Grease.

_(The figure of Bella Cohen stands before him.)_

BELLA: You'll know me the next time.

BLOOM: _(Composed, regards her) Passée._ Mutton dressed as lamb. Long
in the tooth and superfluous hair. A raw onion the last thing at night
would benefit your complexion. And take some double chin drill. Your
eyes are as vapid as the glasseyes of your stuffed fox. They have the
dimensions of your other features, that's all. I'm not a triple screw
propeller.

BELLA: _(Contemptuously)_ You're not game, in fact. _(Her sowcunt
barks)_ Fbhracht!

BLOOM: _(Contemptuously)_ Clean your nailless middle finger first, your
bully's cold spunk is dripping from your cockscomb. Take a handful of
hay and wipe yourself.

BELLA: I know you, canvasser! Dead cod!

BLOOM: I saw him, kipkeeper! Pox and gleet vendor!

BELLA: _(Turns to the piano)_ Which of you was playing the dead march
from _Saul?_

ZOE: Me. Mind your cornflowers. _(She darts to the piano and bangs
chords on it with crossed arms)_ The cat's ramble through the slag.
_(She glances back)_ Eh? Who's making love to my sweeties? _(She darts
back to the table)_ What's yours is mine and what's mine is my own.

_(Kitty, disconcerted, coats her teeth with the silver paper. Bloom
approaches Zoe.)_

BLOOM: _(Gently)_ Give me back that potato, will you?

ZOE: Forfeits, a fine thing and a superfine thing.

BLOOM: _(With feeling)_ It is nothing, but still, a relic of poor mamma.

ZOE:

     Give a thing and take it back
     God'll ask you where is that
     You'll say you don't know
     God'll send you down below.

BLOOM: There is a memory attached to it. I should like to have it.

STEPHEN: To have or not to have that is the question.

ZOE: Here. _(She hauls up a reef of her slip, revea