m Mrs Boylan my mother whoever she
was might have given me a nicer name the Lord knows after the lovely
one she had Lunita Laredo the fun we had running along Williss road to
Europa point twisting in and out all round the other side of Jersey they
were shaking and dancing about in my blouse like Millys little ones now
when she runs up the stairs I loved looking down at them I was jumping
up at the pepper trees and the white poplars pulling the leaves off and
throwing them at him he went to India he was to write the voyages those
men have to make to the ends of the world and back its the least they
might get a squeeze or two at a woman while they can going out to be
drowned or blown up somewhere I went up Windmill hill to the flats
that Sunday morning with captain Rubios that was dead spyglass like the
sentry had he said hed have one or two from on board I wore that frock
from the B Marche paris and the coral necklace the straits shining I
could see over to Morocco almost the bay of Tangier white and the Atlas
mountain with snow on it and the straits like a river so clear Harry
Molly darling I was thinking of him on the sea all the time after at
mass when my petticoat began to slip down at the elevation weeks and
weeks I kept the handkerchief under my pillow for the smell of him there
was no decent perfume to be got in that Gibraltar only that cheap peau
dEspagne that faded and left a stink on you more than anything else I
wanted to give him a memento he gave me that clumsy Claddagh ring for
luck that I gave Gardner going to south Africa where those Boers killed
him with their war and fever but they were well beaten all the same as
if it brought its bad luck with it like an opal or pearl still it must
have been pure 18 carrot gold because it was very heavy but what could
you get in a place like that the sandfrog shower from Africa and that
derelict ship that came up to the harbour Marie the Marie whatyoucallit
no he hadnt a moustache that was Gardner yes I can see his face
cleanshaven Frseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeefrong that train again weeping tone
once in the dear deaead days beyondre call close my eyes breath my lips
forward kiss sad look eyes open piano ere oer the world the mists began
I hate that istsbeg comes loves sweet sooooooooooong Ill let that out
full when I get in front of the footlights again Kathleen Kearney
and her lot of squealers Miss This Miss That Miss Theother lot of
sparrowfarts skitting around talking about politics they know as much
about as my backside anything in the world to make themselves someway
interesting Irish homemade beauties soldiers daughter am I ay and whose
are you bootmakers and publicans I beg your pardon coach I thought you
were a wheelbarrow theyd die down dead off their feet if ever they got
a chance of walking down the Alameda on an officers arm like me on the
bandnight my eyes flash my bust that they havent passion God help their
poor head I knew more about men and life when I was I S than theyll all
know at 50 they dont know how to sing a song like that Gardner said no
man could look at my mouth and teeth smiling like that and not think of
it I was afraid he mightnt like my accent first he so English all father
left me in spite of his stamps Ive my mothers eyes and figure anyhow
he always said theyre so snotty about themselves some of those cads he
wasnt a bit like that he was dead gone on my lips let them get a husband
first thats fit to be looked at and a daughter like mine or see if they
can excite a swell with money that can pick and choose whoever he wants
like Boylan to do it 4 or 5 times locked in each others arms or the
voice either I could have been a prima donna only I married him comes
looooves old deep down chin back not too much make it double My Ladys
Bower is too long for an encore about the moated grange at twilight and
vaunted rooms yes Ill sing Winds that blow from the south that he gave
after the choirstairs performance Ill change that lace on my black dress
to show off my bubs and Ill yes by God Ill get that big fan mended make
them burst with envy my hole is itching me always when I think of him I
feel I want to I feel some wind in me better go easy not wake him have
him at it again slobbering after washing every bit of myself back belly
and sides if we had even a bath itself or my own room anyway I wish hed
sleep in some bed by himself with his cold feet on me give us room even
to let a fart God or do the least thing better yes hold them like that
a bit on my side piano quietly sweeeee theres that train far away
pianissimo eeeee one more song

that was a relief wherever you be let your wind go free who knows if
that pork chop I took with my cup of tea after was quite good with the
heat I couldnt smell anything off it Im sure that queerlooking man in
the porkbutchers is a great rogue I hope that lamp is not smoking fill
my nose up with smuts better than having him leaving the gas on all
night I couldnt rest easy in my bed in Gibraltar even getting up to see
why am I so damned nervous about that though I like it in the winter its
more company O Lord it was rotten co