 a reward offered for his discovery;
but he had fled to Scotland, and from thence to Holland.

10 See Letter 52, note 5.

11 Lady Orkney's sister, Barbara Villiers, who married John Berkeley,
fourth Viscount Fitz-Hardinge, had been governess to the Duke of
Gloucester, Queen Anne's son. She died in 1708, in her fifty-second
year; and on her husband's death four years later the peerage became
extinct.

12 For the street criers, see the Spectator, No. 251.




LETTER 55.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley." Endorsed "Nov. 26, just come from
Portraine"; and "The band-box plot--D: Hamilton's murther."

2 Charles Mohun, fifth Baron Mohun, had been twice arraigned of murder,
but acquitted; and during his short but turbulent life he had taken part
in many duels. Even Burnet could say nothing in his favour.

3 This duel between the Duke of Hamilton (see Letter 27, note 9) and
Lord Mohun, who had married nieces of Lord Macclesfield, had its origin
in a protracted dispute about some property. The challenge came from
Lord Mohun, and the combatants fought like "enraged lions." Tory writers
suggested that the duel was a Whig conspiracy to get rid of the Duke of
Hamilton (Examiner, Nov. 20, 1712). The whole subject is discussed from
the Whig point of view in Boyer's Political State for 1712, pp. 297-326.

4 "Will" (MS.).

5 See Letter 27, note 9.

6 George Maccartney (see Letter 11, note 13 and Letter 39, Jan. 22,
1711-12 ) fought at Almanza, Malplaquet, and Douay. After the duel,
Maccartney escaped to Holland, but on the accession of George I. he
returned to England, and was tried for murder (June 1716), when Colonel
Hamilton gave evidence against him. Hamilton's evidence was discredited,
and he found it necessary to sell his commission and leave the country.
Maccartney was found guilty as an accessory, and "burnt" in the hand.
Within a month he was given an appointment in the army; and promoted to
be Lieutenant-General. He died in 1730.

7 Colonel John Hamilton, of the Scots Guards. He surrendered himself,
and was tried at the Old Bailey on Dec. 12, 1712, when he was found
guilty of manslaughter, on two indictments; and on the following day
he was "burnt" in the hand. Hamilton died in October 1716, soon after
Maccartney's trial, from a sudden vomiting of blood.

8 "That" (MS.).

9 The story (as told in the Tory Postboy of Nov. 11 to 13) was that on
Nov. 4 a bandbox was sent to the Earl of Oxford by post. When he began
to open it he saw a pistol, whereupon a gentleman present (Swift) asked
for the box, and opening it, by the window, found powder, nails, etc.,
so arranged that, if opened in the ordinary way, the whole would have
been fired, and two barrels discharged different ways. No doubt a box
so packed was received, but whether anything serious was intended, or
whether it was a hoax, cannot be said with any certainty. The Earl of
Oxford is said to have met allusions to the subject with a smile, and
Swift seems to have been annoyed at the reports which were put into
circulation.

10 "We have received a more particular account relating to the box sent
to the Lord Treasurer, as mentioned in our last, which is as follows,"
etc. (Evening News, Nov. 11 to 13, 1712).

11 Either "A Letter to the People, to be left for them at the
Booksellers, with a word or two of the Bandbox Plot" (by T. Burnet),
1712, or "An Account of the Duel..., with Previous Reflections on Sham
Plots" (by A. Boyer), 1712. Swift's connection with the Bandbox Plot was
ridiculed in the Flying Post for Nov. 20 to 22.

12 Cf. Letter 16, Feb. 20, 1710-11.

13 This sentence is partially obliterated.

14 Part of this sentence has been obliterated.

15 See Letter 43, note 39. I have not been able to find a copy of the
paper containing Swift's paragraph.

16 This sentence is partially obliterated.

17 See Letter 12, note 2.

18 Apparently Humphrey Griffith, who was one of the Commissioners of
Salt; but Swift gives the name as "Griffin" throughout.

19 See Letter 53, note 13 and Letter 5, note 16.

20 For these shorter letters Swift folded the folio sheet before
writing.




LETTER 56.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc. Endorsed "Decr. 18."

2 Vengeance.

3 Charles Connor, scholar of Trinity College, Dublin, who took his B.A.
degree in the same year as Swift (1686), and his M.A. degree in 1691.

4 The History of the Peace of Utrecht.

5 See Letter 55, note 7.

6 Lord Oxford's daughter Elizabeth married, on Dec. 16, 1712, Peregrine
Hyde, Marquis of Caermarthen, afterwards third Duke of Leeds (see Letter
42, note 23 and Letter 24, note 5). She died on Nov. 20, 1713, a few
days after the birth of a son. Swift called her "a friend I extremely
loved."

7 "Is" (MS.).

8 Disorders.

9 See Letter 34, note 10.

10 John Francis, Rector of St. Mary's, Dublin, was made Dean of Leighlin
in 1705.

11 See Letter 9, note 7.

12 Possibly "have."

13 See Letter 55, notes 9, 10, 11.

14 This clause is omitted by Mr. Ryland.

15 See Letter 31, note 6.

16 See Letter 54, Oct. 30, 1712.

17 Thomas Jones, Esq., was M.P. for Trim in the Parliament of 1713-4.

18 A Dutch agent employed in the negotiations wi