hard Thornhill was tried at the Old Bailey on May 18, 1711, for
the murder of Sir Cholmley Dering, M.P. for Kent, and found guilty
of manslaughter only; but he was shortly afterwards assassinated (see
Journal for Aug. 21, 1711; Spectator, No. 84). The quarrel began on
April 27, when they fell to blows, and Thornhill being knocked down, had
some teeth struck out by Sir C. Dering stamping on him. The spectators
then interfered, and Dering expressed himself as ready to beg pardon;
but Thornhill not thinking this was sufficient satisfaction, gave Dering
the lie, and on May 9 sent him a challenge.

16 Tothill Fields, Westminster, was a favourite place for duels in the
seventeenth century.

17 See Letter 13, note 17.

18 Benjamin Burton, a Dublin banker, and brother-in-law of Swift's
friend Stratford (see Letter 3, note 22). Swift says he hated this
"rogue."




LETTER 23.

1 The day on which the Club met. See letter from Swift to St. John, May
11, 1711.

2 Henry Barry, fourth Lord Barry of Santry (1680-1734), was an Irish
Privy Councillor, and Governor of Derry. In 1702 he married Bridget,
daughter of Sir Thomas Domville, Bart., and in an undated letter (about
1735) to Lady Santry Swift spoke of his esteem for her, "although I had
hardly the least acquaintance with your lord, nor was at all desirous
to cultivate it, because I did not at all approve of his conduct." Lord
Santry's only son and heir, who was born in 1710, was condemned to death
for the murder of a footman in 1739, when the barony became extinct by
forfeiture. See B. W. Adams's History of Santry.

3 Probably Captain Cammock, of the Speedwell, of 28 guns and 125 men
(Luttrell, vi. 331), who met on July 13, 1708, off Scotland, two French
privateers, one of 16, the other of 18 guns, and fought them several
hours. The first privateer got off, much shattered; the other was
brought into Carrickfergus.

4 See Letter 7, note 21.

5 See Letter 13, note 10.

6 This valuable pamphlet is signed "J.G.," and is believed to be by John
Gay.

7 Edmund Curll's collection of Swift's Miscellanies, published in 1711,
was an expansion of a pamphlet of 1710, "A Meditation upon a Broomstick,
and somewhat beside, of the same Author's."

8 "In this passage DD signifies both Dingley and Stella" (Deane Swift).

9 Sir Henry Craik's reading. The old editions have, "It would do: DD
goes as well as Presto," which is obviously corrupt.

10 Cf. Journal, June 17, 1712.

11 Cf. "old doings" (see Letter 9, note 19.)

12 See Letter 17, note 11.

13 Rymer's Foedera, in three volumes, which Swift obtained for Trinity
College, Dublin.

14 See Letter 6, note 43 and 9th Feb. 1710-11.

15 Stephen Colledge, "the Protestant joiner," was hanged in 1681. He had
published attacks on the Roman Catholics, and had advocated resistance
to Charles II.

16 See Letter 3, note 39.

17 Mitford Crowe was appointed Governor of Barbados in 1706, and before
his departure for that island went to Spain, "to settle the accounts of
our army there, of which he is paymaster" (Luttrell, vi. 104). In 1710
charges of bribery brought against him by merchants were inquired into
by the Privy Council, but he seems to have cleared himself, for in June
1711 Swift speaks of him as Governor of Jamaica. He died in 1719.

18 See Letter 8, note 21.

19 Swift's uncle Adam "lived and died in Ireland," and left no son.
Another daughter of his became Mrs. Whiteway.

20 William Lowndes, M.P., secretary to the Treasury, whom Walpole called
"as able and honest a servant as ever the Crown had."

21 The Lord Treasurer's staff: since the dismissal of Godolphin, the
Treasurership had been held in commission.

22 "As I hope to be saved."

23 Stella's maid.

24 See letter from King to Swift, May 15, 1711. Alderman Constantine,
a High Churchman, indignant at being passed over by a junior in the
contest for the mayoralty, brought the matter before the Council
Board, and produced an old by-law by which aldermen, according to their
ancientry, were required to keep their mayoralty. King took the side of
the city, but the majority was for the by-law, and disapproved of the
election; whereupon the citizens repealed the by-law and re-elected the
same alderman as before.




LETTER 24.

1 The Lord Treasurer's staff.

2 Swift's "little parson cousin," the resident chaplain at Moor Park. He
pretended to have had some part in The Tale of a Tub, and Swift always
professed great contempt for him. Thomas Swift was son of an Oxford
uncle of Swift's, of the same name, and was at school and college with
Swift. He became Rector of Puttenham, Surrey, and died in 1752, aged
eighty-seven.

3 The Duke of Ormond's daughter, Lady Mary Butler (see Letter 7, notes 2
and 3.)

4 Thomas Harley, the Lord Treasurer's cousin, was secretary to the
Treasury.

5 Lord Oxford's daughter Elizabeth married, in 1712, the Marquis of
Caermarthen.

6 Henry Tenison, M.P. for County Louth, was one of the Commissioners of
the Revenue in Ireland from 1704 until his death in 1709 (Luttrell, v.
381, vi. 523). Probably he was related to Dr. Tenison, Bishop of Meath,
who died in 1705.

7 Anne Finch (died 1720),