 of St.
David's, died in 1710. But Dr. Bull died on Feb. 17, 1710, though his
successor, Dr. Philip Bisse, was not appointed until November; and Swift
was merely repeating a false report of the death of Lord Crewe, Bishop
of Durham, which was current on the day on which he wrote. Luttrell
says, on Sept. 19, "The Lord Crewe.. . died lately"; but on the 23rd he
adds, "The Bishop of Durham is not dead as reported" (Brief Relation,
vi. 630, 633.

37. Lady Elizabeth ("Betty") Butler, who died unmarried in 1750.

38. Swift wrote in 1734, "Once every year I issued out an edict,
commanding that all ladies of wit, sense, merit, and quality, who had
an ambition to be acquainted with me, should make the first advances at
their peril: which edict, you may believe, was universally obeyed."

39. Charles, second Earl of Berkeley (1649-1710), married Elizabeth,
daughter of Baptist Noel, Viscount Campden. The Earl died on Sept. 24,
1710, and his widow in 1719. Swift, it will be remembered, had been
chaplain to Lord Berkeley in Ireland in 1699.

40. Lady Betty and Lady Mary Butler. (see Letter 7, notes 2 and 3.)

41. Henry Boyle, Chancellor of the Exchequer from 1702 to 1708, was
Secretary of State from 1708 to 1710, when he was succeeded by St. John.
In 1714 he was created Baron Carleton, and he was Lord President from
1721 until his death in 1725.

42. On Sept. 29 Swift wrote that his rooms consisted of the first floor,
a dining-room and bed-chamber, at eight shillings a week. On his last
visit to England, in 1726, he lodged "next door to the Royal Chair" in
Bury Street. Steele lived in the same street from 1707 to 1712; and Mrs.
Vanhomrigh was Swift's next-door neighbour.

43. In Exchange Alley. Cf. Spectator, No. 454: "I went afterwards to
Robin's, and saw people who had dined with me at the fivepenny ordinary
just before, give bills for the value of large estates."

Letter 4.

1 John Molesworth, Commissioner of the Stamp Office, was sent as Envoy
to Tuscany in 1710, and was afterwards Minister at Florence, Venice,
Geneva, and Turin. He became second Viscount Molesworth in 1725, and
died in 1731.

2 Misson says, "Every two hours you may write to any part of the city or
suburbs: he that receives it pays a penny, and you give nothing when you
put it into the Post; but when you write into the country both he that
writes and he that receives pay each a penny." The Penny Post system had
been taken over by the Government, but was worked separately from the
general Post.

3 The Countess of Berkeley's second daughter, who married, in 1706,
Sir John Germaine, Bart. (1650-1718), a soldier of fortune. Lady Betty
Germaine is said to have written a satire on Pope (Nichols' Literary
Anecdotes, ii. 11), and was a constant correspondent of Swift's. She was
always a Whig, and shortly before her death in 1769 she made a present
of 100 pounds to John Wilkes, then in prison in the Tower. Writing of
Lady Betty Butler and Lady Betty Germaine, Swift says elsewhere, "I saw
two Lady Bettys this afternoon; the beauty of one, the good breeding
and nature of the other, and the wit of either, would have made a fine
woman." Germaine obtained the estate at Drayton through his first wife,
Lady Mary Mordaunt--Lord Peterborough's sister--who had been divorced
by her first husband, the Duke of Norfolk. Lady Betty was thirty years
younger than her husband, and after Sir John's death she remained a
widow for over fifty years.

4 The letter in No. 280 of the Tatler.

5 Discover, find out. Cf. Shakespeare's All's Well that Ends Well, iii.
6: "He was first smoked by the old Lord Lafeu."

6 A village near Dublin.

7 Excellent.

8 John Molesworth, and, probably, his brother Richard, afterwards third
Viscount Molesworth, who had saved the Duke of Marlborough's life at
the battle of Ramillies, and had been appointed, in 1710, colonel of a
regiment of foot.

9 Presumably at Charles Ford's.

10 The Virtues of Sid Hamet the Magician's Rod, published as a single
folio sheet, was a satire on Godolphin.

11 Apparently Marcus Antonius Morgan, steward to the Bishop of Kildare
(Craik). Swift wrote to the Duke of Montagu on Aug. 12, 1713 (Buccleuch
MSS., 1899, i. 359). "Mr. Morgan of Kingstrope is a friend, and was, I
am informed, put out of the Commission of justice for being so."

12 Dr. Raymond is called Morgan's "father" because he warmly supported
Morgan's interests.

13 The Rev. Thomas Warburton, Swift's curate at Laracor, whom Swift
described to the Archbishop as "a gentleman of very good learning and
sense, who has behaved himself altogether unblamably."

14 The tobacco was to be used as snuff. About this time ladies much
affected the use of snuff, and Steele, in No. 344 of the Spectator,
speaks of Flavilla pulling out her box, "which is indeed full of good
Brazil," in the middle of the sermon. People often made their own snuff
out of roll tobacco, by means of rasps. On Nov. 3, 1711, Swift speaks
of sending "a fine snuff rasp of ivory, given me by Mrs. St. John for
Dingley, and a large roll of tobacco."

15 Katherine Barton, second daughter of Robert Barton, of Brigstock,
Northampton