er 1, note 12.

8 See Letter 8, note 14.

9 The Examiner was resumed on Dec. 6, 1711, under Oldisworth's
editorship, and was continued by him until July 1714.

10 Daniel Finch, second Earl of Nottingham, a staunch Tory, had
quarrelled with the Government and the Court. On Dec. 7, 1711, he
carried, by six votes, an amendment to the Address, to the effect that
no peace would be acceptable which left Spain in the possession of the
House of Bourbon. Harley's counter-stroke was the creation of twelve new
peers. The Whigs rewarded Nottingham by withdrawing their opposition to
the Occasional Conformity Bill:

11 This "Song" begins:

     "An orator dismal of Nottinghamshire,
      Who had forty years let out his conscience for hire."

12 The Conduct of the Allies.

13 Robert Bertie, Lord Willoughby de Eresby, and fourth Earl of Lindsey,
was created Marquis of Lindsay in 1706, and Duke of Ancaster and
Kesteven in 1715. He died in 1723.

14 Lady Sunderland (see Letter 27, note 21) and Lady Rialton, ladies of
the bed-chamber to the Queen.

15 Hugh Cholmondeley (died 1724), the second Viscount, was created
Viscount Malpas and Earl of Cholmondeley in 1706, and in 1708 was
appointed Treasurer of Her Majesty's Household, an office which he held
until 1713, in spite of his Whig sympathies. "Good for nothing, so far
as ever I knew," Swift wrote of him.

16 Prov. xxv. 3.

17 See Letter 31, note 8.

18 Thomas Parker, afterwards created Earl of Macclesfield, was appointed
Lord Chief-Justice in March 1710. In September 1711 he declined Harley's
offer of the Lord Chancellorship, a post which he accepted under a Whig
Government in the next reign.

19 The Bill against Occasional Conformity.




LETTER 37.

1 The proposed visit to London of Prince Eugene of Savoy, the renowned
General, and friend of Marlborough, was viewed by the Government with
considerable alarm.

2 Swift's "An excellent new Song; being the intended Speech of a famous
orator against Peace," a ballad "two degrees above Grub Street" (see
Letter 36, note 11).

3 Robert Walpole was then M.P. for King's Lynn, and Leader of the
Opposition in the House of Commons. He had been Secretary at War
from February 1708 to September 1710, and the Commissioners of Public
Accounts having reported, on Dec. 21, 1711, that he had been guilty of
venality and corruption, he was expelled from the House of Commons, and
taken to the Tower.

4 William King, D.C.L., author of the Journey to London in 1698,
Dialogues of the Dead, The Art of Cookery, and other amusing works, was,
at the end of the month, appointed Gazetteer, in succession to Steele,
on Swift's recommendation. Writing earlier in the year, Gay said that
King deserved better than to "languish out the small remainder of his
life in the Fleet Prison." The duties of Gazetteer were too much for his
easy-going nature and failing health, and he resigned the post in July
1712. He died in the following December.

5 At the bottom of St. James's Street, on the west side.

6 The Rev. John Shower, pastor of the Presbyterian Congregation at
Curriers' Hall, London Wall.

7 The Windsor Prophecy, in which the Duchess of Somerset (see Letter 17,
note 10) is attacked as "Carrots from Northumberland."

8 Merlin's Prophecy, 1709, written in pseudo-mediaeval English.

9 See Letter 3, note 18.

10 Dorothy, daughter of Sir Edward Leach, of Shipley, Derbyshire.

11 Sir James Long, Bart. (died 1729), was at this time M.P. for
Chippenham.

12 The number containing this paragraph is not in the British Museum.

13 Joseph Beaumont (see Letter 1, note 2, Letter 26, Jul. 6, 1711 and
Letter 35, note 26)

14 See Letter 4, note 13.

15 Apparently a misprint for "whether."

16 See Letter 32, note 19.

17 James Compton, afterwards fifth Earl of Northampton (died 1754),
was summoned to the House of Lords as Baron Compton in December 1711.
Charles Bruce, who succeeded his father as third Earl of Aylesbury in
1741, was created Lord Bruce, of Whorlton, at the same time.

18 James, Lord Compton, eldest son of the Earl of Northampton; Charles,
Lord Bruce, eldest son of the Earl of Aylesbury; Henry Paget, son of
Lord Paget; George Hay, Viscount Dupplin, the son-in-law of the Lord
Treasurer, created Baron Hay; Viscount Windsor, created Baron Montjoy;
Sir Thomas Mansel, Baron Mansel; Sir Thomas Willoughby, Baron Middleton;
Sir Thomas Trevor, Baron Trevor; George Granville, Baron Lansdowne;
Samuel Masham, Baron Masham; Thomas Foley, Baron Foley; and Allen
Bathurst, Baron Bathurst.




LETTER 38.

1 Juliana, widow of the second Earl of Burlington, and daughter of the
Hon. Henry Noel, was Mistress of the Robes to Queen Anne. She died in
1750, aged seventy-eight.

2 Thomas Windsor, Viscount Windsor (died 1738), an Irish peer, who had
served under William III. in Flanders, was created Baron Montjoy, of the
Isle of Wight, in December 1711. He married Charlotte, widow of
John, Baron Jeffries, of Wem, and daughter of Philip Herbert, Earl of
Pembroke.

3 The Hon. Russell Robartes, brother of Lord Radnor (see Letter 3, note
7), was Teller of the Exchequer, and M.P. for Bodmin. His son became
third E