
LETTER 46.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc. Endorsed "May 15."

2 Madam Ayris.

3 Simpleton.

4 Robert Benson (see Letter 6, note 36).

5 See Letter 41, note 35 and Letter 43, note 7.

6 The title was, An Appendix to John Bull still in his Senses: or, Law
is a Bottomless Pit.

7 Arbuthnot.

8 Enquiries by servants.

9 See Letter 17, note 5.

10 Sick.

11 Afterwards Rector of Letcombe, Berks. It was to his house that Swift
repaired a few weeks before the Queen's death. On June 8, 1714, he
wrote, "I am at a clergyman's house, whom I love very well, but he is
such a melancholy, thoughtful man, partly from nature, and partly by a
solitary life, that I shall soon catch the spleen from him. His wife has
been this month twenty miles off at her father's, and will not return
these ten days, and perhaps the house will be worse when she comes."
Swift spells the name "Geree"; later on in the Journal he mentions two
of Mr. Gery's sisters, Betty (Mrs. Elwick) and Moll (Mrs. Wigmore);
probably he made the acquaintance of the family when he was living with
the Temples at Moor Park (see Letter 59, note 11).

12 Because she is a good girl in other things.




LETTER 47.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc. Endorsed "June 5."

2 Sice, the number six at dice.

3 At Laracor Swift had "a canal and river-walk and willows."

4 Splenetic fellow.

5 One of them was by Oldmixon: Reflections on Dr. Swift's Letter to the
Earl of Oxford.

6 Beg your pardon.

7 See Letter 25, note 9.

8 On May 28, Lord Halifax moved an Address to the Queen that the
instructions given to the Duke of Ormond might be laid before the House,
and that further orders might be issued to him to act offensively, in
concert with the Allies. Wharton and Nottingham supported the motion,
but it was negatived by 68 votes against 40. A similar motion in the
House of Commons was defeated by 203 against 73.

9 See Letter 34, note 10.

10 See Letter 23, note 13.

11 "Some Reasons to prove that no Person is obliged by his Principles,
as a Whig, to oppose Her Majesty: in a Letter to a Whig Lord."

12 Several words obliterated.

13 Several words obliterated.

14 The bellman.

15 This present writing.

16 Please.




LETTER 48.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Rebecca Dingley," etc. Endorsed "June 23d."

2 Mr. Ryland reads "second."

3 As I hope to be saved.

4 See Letter 30, Sept. 18, 1711.

5 Glad at heart.

6 The threepenny pamphlet mentioned in Letter 47, note 11.

7 I.e., for.




LETTER 49.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley." Endorsed "July 8."

2 See Letter 28, note 24.

3 See Letter 10, note 2.

4 See Letter 3, note 11.

5 See Letter 48, note 4.

6 Dr. William Lloyd--one of the Seven Bishops of 1688--was eighty-four
years of age at this time; he died five years later. He was a strong
antipapist, and a great student of the Apocalypse, besides being a
hard-working bishop. A curious letter from him to Lord Oxford about a
coming war of religion is given in the Welbeck Papers (Hist. MSS. Comm.)
v. 128.

7 "Toland's Invitation to Dismal to dine with the Calf's Head Club."
The Earl of Nottingham (Dismal) had deserted the Tories, and Swift's
imitation of Horace (Epist. I. v.) is an invitation from Toland to dine
with "his trusty friends" in celebration of the execution of Charles I.
The Calf's Head Club was in the habit of toasting "confusion to the race
of kings."

8 Bolingbroke.

9 George Fitzroy, Duke of Northumberland (died 1716), a natural son of
Charles II., was also Viscount Falmouth and Baron of Pontefract. See
Notes and Queries, viii. i. 135.

10 Enoch Sterne.

11 Templeoag (see Letter 48, Jun. 17, 1712).

12 Swift probably was only repeating an inaccurate rumour, for there is
no evidence that Steele was arrested. His gambling scheme was withdrawn
directly an information was laid under the new Act of Parliament against
gambling (Aitken's Life of Steele, i. 347).

13 Dr. William Moreton (1641-1715), Swift's diocesan, was translated
from the see of Kildare to that of Meath in 1705.

14 Words obliterated. Forster reads conjecturally, "when ME wants me to
send. She ought to have it," etc.




LETTER 50.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc. Endorsed "July 23."

2 "N.33" seems a mistake. Letter No. 32 was received after Swift had
left Kensington and gone to Windsor; see Letter 51, Aug. 7, 1712 and
Letter 52, Sept. 18, 1712 (Ryland).

3 Dr. Moreton (see Letter 49, note 13).

4 Memoranda.

5 Again.

6 O Lord, drunken slut.

7 There's for you now, and there's for your letter, and every kind of
thing.

8 Bolingbroke.

9 See Letter 13, note 10.

10 Grub Street pamphlet. The title was, A Supposed Letter from the
Pretender to another Whig Lord.

11 Arnold Joost Van Keppel, created Earl of Albemarle in 1697. He died
in 1718. The action referred to was at Denain, where the Dutch were
defeated by Villars.




LETTER 51.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc. Endorsed "Aug. 14."

2 Perhaps this was influenza.

3 By the Stamp Act passed on June 10, 1712--which was repealed in
1859--a duty of one halfpenny was levied on all pamphlets and newspapers
contained in half a sheet or less, and a duty of one penny on those 