arl of
Drogheda. Her husband, George Rochfort, M.P. for Westmeath, was son of
Robert Rochfort, an Irish judge, and brother of Robert Rochford, M.P.,
to whose wife Swift addressed his Advice to a very Young Lady on her
Marriage. Lady Betty's son Robert was created Earl of Belvedere in 1757.

6 See Letter 17, note 23. Mr. Bussiere, of Suffolk Street, had been
called in directly after the outrage, but Radcliffe would not consult
him.

7 The letter from Dr. King dated March 17, 1711, commenting on
Guiscard's attack upon Harley.

8 See Feb. 10, 1710-11.

9 The word "trangram" or "tangram" ordinarily means a toy or gimcrack,
or trumpery article. Cf. Wycherley (Plain Dealer, iii. 1), "But go,
thou trangram, and carry back those trangrams which thou hast stolen or
purloined." Apparently "trangum" here means a tally.

10 See Letter 12, note 2.

11 Swift means Godolphin, the late Lord Treasurer.

12 Sir John Holland (see Letter 3, note 28).

13 "It caused a violent daub on the paper, which still continues much
discoloured in the original" (Deane Swift).

14 "He forgot here to say, 'At night.' See what goes before" (Deane
Swift).

15 See Letter 17, note 1.

16 Irishman. "Teague" was a term of contempt for an Irishman.

17 To "Mr. Harley, wounded by Guiscard." In this piece Prior said,
"Britain with tears shall bathe thy glorious wound," a wound which could
not have been inflicted by any but a stranger to our land.

18 Sir Thomas Mansel married Martha, daughter and heiress of Francis
Millington, a London merchant.

19 Slatterning, consuming carelessly.

20 "The candle grease mentioned before, which soaked through, deformed
this part of the paper on the second page" (Deane Swift).

21 Harcourt.

22 William Rollinson, formerly a wine merchant, settled afterwards in
Oxfordshire, where he died at a great age. He was a friend of Pope,
Bolingbroke, and Gay.

23 In relation to the banknote (see Letter 17, note 14).

24 "Swift was, at this time, their great support and champion" (Deane
Swift).

25 See Letter 14, note 15.

26 See Letter 17, note 25.

27 "Stella, with all her wit and good sense, spelled very ill; and Dr.
Swift insisted greatly upon women spelling well" (Deane Swift).

28 "The slope of the letters in the words THIS WAY, THIS WAY, is to
the left hand, but the slope of the words THAT WAY, THAT WAY, is to the
right hand" (Deane Swift).

29 See Letter 17, note 24.

30 See Letter 5, note 11 and Letter 10, note 28.




LETTER 20.

1 By the Act 9 Anne, cap. 23, the number of hackney coaches was
increased to 800, and it was provided that they were to go a mile and a
half for one shilling, two miles for one shilling and sixpence, and so
on.

2 See Letter 11, note 39.

3 In a letter to Swift, of March 17, 1711, King said that it might have
been thought that Guiscard's attack would have convinced the world that
Harley was not in the French interest; but it did not have that effect
with all, for some whispered the case of Fenius Rufus and Scevinus in
the 15th book of Tacitus: "Accensis indicibus ad prodendum Fenium Rufum,
quem eundem conscium et inquisitorem non tolerabant." Next month Swift
told King that it was reported that the Archbishop had applied this
passage in a speech made to his clergy, and explained at some length the
steps he had taken to prevent the story being published in the Postboy.
King thanked Swift for this action, explaining that he had been arguing
on Harley's behalf when someone instanced the story of Rufus.

4 A Tory paper, published thrice weekly by Abel Roper.

5 Sir Charles Duncombe, banker, died on April 9, 1711. The first wife of
the Duke of Argyle (see Letter 11, note 57) was Duncombe's niece,
Mary Browne, daughter of Ursula Duncombe and Thomas Browne, of St.
Margaret's, Westminster. Duncombe was elected Lord Mayor in 1700, and
was the richest commoner in England.

6 The Rev. Dillon Ashe (see Letter 12, note 23).

7 John, fourth Baron Poulett, was created Earl Poulett in 1706, after
serving as one of the Commissioners for the Treaty of Union with
Scotland. From August 1710 to May 1711 he was First Lord of the
Treasury, and from June 1711 to August 1714 he was Lord Steward of the
Household.

8 Lost or stupid person.

9 Sir William Read, a quack who advertised largely in the Tatler and
other papers. He was satirised in No. 547 of the Spectator. In 1705
he was knighted for his services in curing many seamen and soldiers of
blindness gratis, and he was appointed Oculist in Ordinary to the Queen.
Read died in 1715, but his business was continued by his widow.

10 General John Webb was not on good terms with Marlborough. He was a
Tory, and had gained distinction in the war at Wynendale (1708), though
the Duke's secretary gave the credit, in the despatch, to Cadogan. There
is a well-known account of Webb in Thackeray's Esmond. He was severely
wounded at Malplaquet in 1709, and in 1710 was given the governorship of
the Isle of Wight. He died in 1724.

11 Henry Campion, M.P. for Penryn, is mentioned in the Political State
for February 1712 as one of the leading men of the October Club. Campion
seems to have been Member, 