
12 See Letter 16, note 20.

13 "I" (MS.).

14 Obliterated. Forster reads, "devil," and Mr. Ryland, "bitch."

15 See Letter 40, note 6.

16 Victor Marie, duc d'Estrees, Marshal of France (died 1727).

17 See Letter 55, note 18.

18 Several words are obliterated. Forster reads, "the last word, God
'give me"; but "'give me" is certainly wrong.

19 See Letter 9, note 13. Sir Thomas Hanmer married, in 1698, at the age
of twenty-two, Isabella, Dowager Duchess of Grafton, daughter of Henry,
Earl of Arlington, and Countess of Arlington in her own right. Hanmer
was not made Secretary of State, but he succeeded Bromley as Speaker of
the House of Commons.

20 William Fitzmaurice (see Letter 11, note 19 and Letter 27, note 11)
entered Christ Church, Oxford, matriculating on March 10, 1712-13, at
the age of eighteen.

21 See Letter 11, note 11.

22 William Bromley, second son of Bromley the Speaker (see Letter 10,
note 1), was a boy of fourteen at this time. In 1727 he was elected M.P.
for Warwick, and he died in 1737, shortly after being elected Member for
Oxford University.

23 See Letter 14, note 12.

24 Sometimes "list" means to border or edge; at others, to sew together,
so as to make a variegated display, or to form a border. Probably it
here means the curling of the bottom of the wig.

25 The last eight words have been much obliterated, and the reading is
doubtful.

26 Lady Henrietta Hyde, second daughter of Laurence Hyde, first Earl
of Rochester (see Letter 8, note 22), married James Scott, Earl of
Dalkeith, son of the Duke of Monmouth. Lord Dalkeith died in 1705,
leaving a son, who succeeded his grandmother (Monmouth's widow) as
second Duke of Buccleuch. Lady Catherine Hyde (see Letter 40, note 6)
was a younger sister of Lady Dalkeith.

27 Swift first wrote "I frequent."

28 See Letter 52, note 5.

29 D'Estrees.

30 Little (almost illegible).




LETTER 61.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc. Endorsed "Mar. 27."

2 See Letter 3, note 20.

3 Formerly Lady Rialton (see Letter 40, note 3).

4 See Letter 58, note 8.

5 See Letter 11, note 39 and Letter 41, note 27.

6 Pun on "gambol."

7 See Letter 57, note 4.

8 See Letter 41, note 7.

9 "Upon Tuesday last, the house where His Grace the late Duke of
Hamilton and Brandon lived was hired for that day, where there was a
fine ball and entertainment; and it is reported in town, that a great
lady, lately gone to travel, left one hundred guineas, with orders that
it should be spent in that manner, and in that house" (Postboy, Feb.
26-28, 1712-13). The "great lady" was, presumably, the Duchess of
Marlborough.

10 See Letter 36, note 14 and Letter 40, note 21.

11 Trinity College, Dublin.

12 See Letter 60, note 19.

13 See Letter 36, note 15.

14 Dr. Pratt, Provost of Trinity College.

15 Obliterated, and doubtful.

16 A deal at cards, that draws the whole tricks.

17 Previous editors have misread "Trevor" as "Treasurer." Thomas Trevor,
Chief-Justice of the Common Pleas, was created Baron Trevor, of Bromham,
in January 1712. By commission of March 9, 1713, he occupied the
woolsack during the illness of the Lord Keeper, Harcourt.

18 This is the only reference to Pope in the Journal. In his "Windsor
Forest" the young poet assisted the Tories by his reference to the peace
of Utrecht, then awaiting ratification.

19 Several words have been obliterated. Forster reads, "Rove Pdfr, poo
Pdfr, Nite MD MD MD," but this is more than the space would contain.

20 William Oldisworth (1680-1734), a Tory journalist and pamphleteer,
who published various works, including a translation of the Iliad. He
died in a debtors' prison.

21 Some words obliterated. The reading is Forster's, and seems to be
correct.

22 Susan Armine, elder daughter of Sir William Armine, Bart., of
Osgodby, Lincolnshire, was created a life peeress in 1674, as Baroness
Belasyse of Osgodby. She died March 6, 1713. Her first husband was the
Honourable Sir Henry Belasyse, son and heir of John, Baron Belasyse, of
Worlaby; and her second, Mr. Fortney, of Chequers.

23 See Letter 7, note 9.

24 A word before "Ppt" is illegible. Forster's reading, "yes," does not
seem right.

25 In November 1711 it was reported that Miss Kingdom was privately
married to Lord Conway (Wentworth Papers, 207), but this was not the
case. Lord Conway was a widower in 1713, but he married an Irish lady
named Bowden.

26 Forster reads, "Nite, my own dee sollahs. Pdfr roves MD"; but the
last three words, at least, do not seem to be in the MS.

27 Probably the Bishop of Raphoe's son (see Letter 29, note 20).

28 What.

29 As Master of the Savoy.

30 William Burgh was Comptroller and Accountant-General for Ireland from
1694 to 1717, when his patent was revoked. He was succeeded by Eustace
Budgell.

31 William Paget, sixth Lord Paget, died in March 1713, aged
seventy-six. He spent a great part of his life as Ambassador at Vienna
and Constantinople.

32 Pocket.

33 Forster reads, "Lele lele logues"; Mr. Ryland, "Lele lele... "




LETTER 62.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc. Endorsed "Apr. 13."

2 Esther Johnson's brother-in-law, Filby (see Letter 55, note 19).

3 E