ote 52.

9 George Smalridge (1663-1719), the High Church divine and popular
preacher, was made Dean of Carlisle in 1711, and Bishop of Bristol in
1714. Steele spoke of him in the Tatler (Nos. 73, 114) as "abounding in
that sort of virtue and knowledge which makes religion beautiful."

10 St. Albans Street, Pall Mall, was removed in 1815 to make way for
Waterloo Place. It was named after Henry Jermyn, Earl of St. Albans.

11 Ben Portlack, the Duke of Ormond's secretary.

12 Algernon Seymour, Earl of Hertford (1684-1750), only son of Charles
Seymour, Duke of Somerset. Lord Hertford succeeded to the dukedom in
1748. From 1708 to 1722 he was M.P. for Northumberland, and from 1708 to
1713 he took an active part in the war in Flanders.

13 See Letter 4.

14 A Short Character of the Earl of Wharton (see Letter 10. note 29).

15 See Letter 9.

16 Henry Herbert, the last Baron Herbert of Cherbury, succeeded to the
peerage in 1709, and soon afterwards married a sister of the Earl of
Portsmouth. A ruined man, he committed suicide in 1738.

17 Nos. 257, 260.

18 See Letter 6, note 12.

19 "AFTER is interlined" (Deane Swift).

20 With this account may be compared what Pope says, as recorded in
Spence's Anecdotes, p. 223: "Lord Peterborough could dictate letters to
nine amanuenses together, as I was assured by a gentleman who saw him do
it when Ambassador at Turin. He walked round the room, and told each of
them in his turn what he was to write. One perhaps was a letter to the
emperor, another to an old friend, a third to a mistress, a fourth to
a statesman, and so on: yet he carried so many and so different
connections in his head, all at the same time."

21 Francis Atterbury, Dean of Carlisle, had taken an active part in the
defence of Dr. Sacheverell. After a long period of suspense he received
the appointment of Dean of Christ Church, and in 1713 he was made Bishop
of Rochester and Dean of Westminster. Atterbury was on intimate terms
with Swift, Pope, and other writers on the Tory side, and Addison--at
whose funeral the Bishop officiated--described him as "one of the
greatest geniuses of his age."

22 John Carteret, second Baron Carteret, afterwards to be well known as
a statesman, succeeded to the peerage in 1695, and became Earl Granville
and Viscount Carteret on the death of his brother in 1744. He died in
1763. In October 1710, when twenty years of age, he had married Frances,
only daughter of Sir Robert Worsley, Bart., of Appuldurcombe, Isle of
Wight.

23 Dillon Ashe, D.D., Vicar of Finglas, and brother of the Bishop
of Clogher. In 1704 he was made Archdeacon of Clogher, and in 1706
Chancellor of Armagh. He seems to have been too fond of drink.

24 Henley (see Letter 6, note 15) married Mary, daughter of Peregrine
Bertie, the second son of Montagu, Earl of Lindsey, and with her
obtained a fortune of 30,000 pounds. After Henley's death his widow
married her relative, Henry Bertie, third son of James, Earl of
Abingdon.

25 Hebrews v. 6.




LETTER 13.

1 Probably Mrs. Manley and John Barber (see Letter 11, note 28 and
Letter 12, note 6).

2 Sir Andrew Fountaine's (see Letter 5, note 28) father, Andrew
Fountaine, M.P., married Sarah, daughter of Sir Thomas Chicheley, Master
of the Ordnance. Sir Andrew's sister, Elizabeth, married Colonel Edward
Clent. The "scoundrel brother," Brig, died in 1746, aged sixty-four
(Blomefield's Norfolk, vi. 233-36).

3 Dame Overdo, the justice's wife in Ben Jonson's Bartholomew Fair.

4 See Letter 3, note 5.

5 Atterbury, who had recently been elected Prolocutor to the Lower House
of Convocation.

6 Dr. Sterne, Dean of St. Patrick's, was not married.

7 January 6 was Twelfth-night.

8 Garraway's Coffee-house, in Change Alley, was founded by Thomas
Garway, the first coffee-man who sold and retailed tea. A room upstairs
was used for sales of wine "by the candle."

9 Sir Constantine Phipps, who had taken an active part in Sacheverell's
defence. Phipps' interference in elections in the Tory interest made
him very unpopular in Dublin, and he was recalled on the death of Queen
Anne.

10 Joseph Trapp, one of the seven poets alluded to in the distich:--
"Alma novem genuit celebres Rhedycina poetas,      Bubb, Stubb, Gru
 Trapp wrote a tragedy in 1704, and in 1708 was chosen the first
Professor of Poetry at Oxford. In 1710 he published pamphlets on behalf
of Sacheverell, and in 1712 Swift secured for him the post of chaplain
to Bolingbroke. During his latter years he held several good livings.
Elsewhere Swift calls him a "coxcomb."

11 See Letter 7, note 21.

12 The extreme Tories, who afterwards formed the October Club.

13 Crowd. A Jacobean writer speaks of "the lurry of lawyers," and "a
lurry and rabble of poor friars."

14 See Letter 5, note 10.

15 St. John's first wife was Frances, daughter and co-heiress of Sir
Henry Winchcombe, Bart., of Berkshire, and in her right St. John enjoyed
the estates of Bucklebury, which on her death in 1718 passed to her
sister. In April 1711 Swift said that "poor Mrs. St. John" was growing
a great favourite of his; she was going to Bath owing to ill-health, and
begged him to