rge" (Deane Swift).
(Italics replaced by capitals for the transcription of this etext.)

15 See Letter 3, note 39.

16 Henry Lowman, First Clerk of the Kitchen.

17 "The Doctor was always a bad reckoner, either of money or anything
else; and this is one of his rapid computations. For, as Stella was
seven days in journey, although Dr. Swift says only six, she might well
have spent four days at Inish-Corthy, and two nights at Mrs. Proby's
mother's, the distance from Wexford to Dublin being but two easy days'
journey" (Deane Swift).

18 Mrs. Fenton.




LETTER 31.

1 See Letter 10, note 31.

2 Charles Paulet, second Duke of Bolton, was appointed Lord Lieutenant
of Ireland in 1717, and died in 1722. In a note on Macky's character of
the Duke, Swift calls him "a great booby"; and Lady Cowper (Diary, p.
154) says that he was generally to be seen with his tongue lolling out
of his mouth.

3 Stella's maid.

4 See Letter 12, note 7.

5 Colonel Fielding (see Letter 16, note 21).

6 The envoys were Menager and the Abbe du Bois; the priest was the Abbe
Gaultier.

7 See Letter 18, note 3.

8 Sir Theophilus Oglethorpe, General, who died in 1702, married Eleanor,
daughter of Richard Wall, of Rogane, Tipperary. She died in 1732, and
Swift described her as so "cunning a devil that she had great influence
as a reconciler of the differences at Court." One of her sons was
General James Oglethorpe, the philanthropist, and friend of Dr. Johnson.

9 "Worrit," trouble, tease.

10 Sir John Walter, Bart. (died 1722), was M.P. for the city of
Oxford. He and Charles Godfrey (see Letter 30, note 11) were the Clerks
Comptrollers of the Green Cloth.

11 See Letter 17, note 3.

12 No doubt one of the daughters of Mervyn Tuchet, fourth Earl of
Castlehaven, who died in 1686.

13 Henrietta Maria, daughter of Charles Scarborow (see Letter 27,
note 19). She married, in 1712, Sir Robert Jenkinson, Bart., M.P. for
Oxfordshire, who died without issue in 1717. See Wentworth Papers, 244.

14 In July 1712 a Commission passed empowering Conyers Darcy and George
Fielding (an equerry to the Queen) to execute the office of Master of
the Horse.

15 At Killibride, about four miles from Trim.

16 Swift's "mistress," Lady Hyde (see Letter 5, note 11), whose husband
had become Earl of Rochester in May 1711. She was forty-one in 1711.

17 See Sept. 19, 1711.

18 See Letter 29, note 14.

19 See Letter 22, note 3.

20 See Letter 27, note 9.

21 See Letter 26, note 10.

22 "This happens to be the only single line written upon the margin of
any of his journals. By some accident there was a margin about as broad
as the back of a razor, and therefore he made this use of it" (Deane
Swift).




LETTER 32.

1 Lieutenant-Colonel Barton, of Colonel Kane's regiment.

2 A nickname for the High Church party.

3 See Letter 29, note 10.

4 "From this pleasantry of my Lord Oxford, the appellative Martinus
Scriblerus took its rise" (Deane Swift).

5 Cf. the Imitation of the Sixth Satire of the Second Book of Horace,
1714, where Swift says that, during their drives together, Harley would

          "gravely try to read the lines
      Writ underneath the country signs."

6 See Letter 23, note 15.

7 See Letter 18, note 4.

8 See Letter 23, note 17.

9 Lord Pembroke (see Letter 7, note 31) married, in 1708, as his second
wife, Barbara, Dowager Baroness Arundell of Trerice, formerly widow of
Sir Richard Mauleverer, and daughter of Sir Thomas Slingsby. She died in
1722.

10 Caleb Coatesworth, who died in 1741, leaving a large fortune.

11 Abel Boyer, Whig journalist and historian, attacked Swift in
his pamphlet, An Account of the State and Progress of the Present
Negotiations for Peace. Boyer says that he was released from custody by
Harley; and in the Political State for 1711 (p. 646) he speaks of Swift
as "a shameless and most contemptible ecclesiastical turncoat, whose
tongue is as swift to revile as his mind is swift to change." The
Postboy said that Boyer would "be prosecuted with the utmost severity of
the law" for this attack.

12 The "Edgar." Four hundred men were killed.

13 William Bretton, or Britton, was made Lieutenant-Colonel in 1702,
Colonel of a new Regiment of Foot 1705, Brigadier-General 1710, and
Colonel of the King's Own Borderers in April 1711 (Dalton, Army Lists,
iii. 238). In December 1711 he was appointed Envoy Extraordinary to the
King of Prussia (Postboy, Jan. 1, 1712), and he died in December 1714 or
January 1715.

14 See Letter 24, note 14.

15 It is not clear which of several Lady Gores is here referred to.
It may be (1) the wife of Sir William Gore, Bart., of Manor Gore, and
Custos Rotulorum, County Leitrim, who married Hannah, eldest daughter
and co-heir of James Hamilton, Esq., son of Sir Frederick Hamilton, and
niece of Gustavus Hamilton, created Viscount Boyne. She died 1733.
Or (2) the wife of Sir Ralph Gore, Bart. (died 1732), M.P. for County
Donegal, and afterwards Speaker of the Irish House of Commons. He
married Miss Colville, daughter of Sir Robert Colville, of Newtown,
Leitrim, and, as his second wife, Elizabeth, only daughter of Dr. Ashe,
Bishop of Clogher.