 the Common Pleas in Ireland.

8 See Letter 2, note 18.

9 Thomas Belasyse, second Viscount Fauconberg, or Falconbridge
(died 1700), a nobleman of hereditary loyalty, married, in 1657, the
Protector's youngest daughter, Mary Cromwell, who is represented as
a lady of high talent and spirit. She died on March 14, 1712. Burnet
describes her as "a wise and worthy woman," who would have had a better
prospect of maintaining her father's post than either of her brothers.

10 Richard Freeman, Chief Baron, was Lord Chancellor of Ireland from
1707 until his death in November 1710.

11 See Letter 7, note 17.

12 Sir Richard Cox, Bart. (1650-1733), was Lord Chancellor of Ireland
from 1703 to 1707. In 1711 he was appointed Chief-Justice of the Queen's
Bench, but he was removed from office on the death of Queen Anne. His
zealous Protestantism sometimes caused his views to be warped, but he
was honest and well-principled.

13 Sir Thomas Hanmer, Bart. (1676-1746), succeeded Bromley as Speaker in
1714. In February 1713 Swift said, "He is the most considerable man in
the House of Commons." His edition of Shakespeare was published by the
University of Oxford in 1743-44. Pope called it "pompous," and sneered
at Hanmer's "superior air" (Dunciad, iv. 105).

14 See Letter 5, note 8.

15 Elliot was keeper of the St. James's Coffee-house (see Letter 1).

16 Forster suggested that the true reading is "writhing." If so, it is
not necessary to suppose that Lady Giffard was the cause of it. Perhaps
it is the word "tiger" that is corrupt.

17 The Hon. Charles Boyle (1676-1731), of the Boyle and Bentley
controversy, succeeded to the peerage as Lord Orrery in 1703. When he
settled in London he became the centre of a Christ Church set, a strong
adherent of Harley's party, and a member of Swift's "club." His son
John, fifth Earl of Orrery, published Remarks on the Life and Writings
of Jonathan Swift in 1751.

18 William Domville, a landed proprietor in County Dublin, whom Swift
called "perfectly as fine a gentleman as I know."

19 On May 16, 1711, Swift wrote, "There will be an old to do." The word
is found in Elizabethan writers in the sense of "more than enough." Cf.
Macbeth, ii. 3: "If a man were porter of hell gate, he should have old
turning the key."

20 See Letter 3, note 10. Clements was related to Pratt, the Deputy
Vice-Treasurer, and was probably the Robert Clements who became Deputy
Vice-Treasurer, and whose grandson Robert was created Earl of Leitrim in
1795.

21 Letter 5, note 11.

22 Swift's sister Jane, who had married a currier in Bride Street, named
Joseph Fenton, a match to which Swift strongly objected. Deane Swift
says that Swift never saw his sister again after the marriage; he had
offered her 500 pounds if she would show a "proper disdain" of Fenton.
On her husband's dying bankrupt, however, Swift paid her an annuity
until 1738, when she died in the same lodging with Esther Johnson's
mother, Mrs. Bridget Mose, at Farnham (Forster's Swift, pp. 118-19).

23 Welbore Ellis, appointed Bishop of Kildare in 1705. He was translated
to Meath in 1731, and died three years later.

24 The expression of the Archbishop is, "I am not to conceal from you
that some expressed a little jealously, that you would not be acceptable
to the present courtiers; intimating that you were under the reputation
of being a favourite of the late party in power" (King to Swift, Nov. 2,
1710).

25 This indignant letter is dated Nov. 23, 1710. It produced an
apologetic reply from the Archbishop (Nov. 30, 1710), who represented
that the letter to Southwell was a snare laid in his way, since if he
declined signing it, it might have been interpreted into disrespect to
the Duke of Ormond. Of the bishops King said, "You cannot do yourself a
greater service than to bring this to a good issue, to their shame and
conviction."




LETTER 10.

1 William Bromley (died 1732) was M.P. for the University of Oxford. A
good debater and a strong High Churchman, he was Secretary of State from
August 1713 until the Queen's death in the following year.

2 Colonel, afterwards Major-General, John Hill (died 1735) was younger
brother of Mrs. Masham, the Queen's favourite, and a poor relation of
the Duchess of Marlborough. He was wounded at Mons in 1709, and in 1711
was sent on an unsuccessful expedition to attack the French settlements
in North America. In 1713 he was appointed to command the troops at
Dunkirk.

3 "The footmen in attendance at the Houses of Parliament used at this
time to form themselves into a deliberative body, and usually debated
the same points with their masters. It was jocularly said that several
questions were lost by the Court party in the menial House of Lords
which were carried triumphantly in the real assembly; which was at
length explained by a discovery that the Scottish peers whose votes
were sometimes decisive of a question had but few representatives in the
convocation of lacqueys. The sable attendant mentioned by Swift, being
an appendage of the brother of Mrs. Masham, the reigning favourite, had
a title to the chair, the Court and Tory interest being exerted i