arl of Radnor in 1723.

4 Gay (Trivia, ii. 92) speaks of "the slabby pavement."

5 See Letter 17, note 1.

6 George Granville (see Letter 14, note 5), now Baron Lansdowne, married
Lady Mary Thynne, widow of Thomas Thynne, and daughter of Edward, Earl
of Jersey (see Letter 29, note 3). In October 1710 Lady Wentworth wrote
to her son, "Pray, my dear, why will you let Lady Mary Thynne go? She is
young, rich, and not unhandsome, some say she is pretty; and a virtuous
lady, and of the nobility, and why will you not try to get her?"
(Wentworth papers, 149).

7 See Letter 24, note 4.

8 Harness.

9 On his birthday Swift read the third chapter of Job.

10 See Letter 33, note 12.

11 Sir George St. George of Dunmore, Co. Galway, M.P. for Co. Leitrim
from 1661 to 1692, and afterwards for Co. Galway, died in December 1711.

12 See Letter 35, note 11 and Letter 31, note 10.

13 See Letter 4, note 16.

14 Dr. Pratt (see Letter 2, note 14).

15 King Henry VIII., act iv. sc. 2; "An old man broken with the storms,"
etc.

16 "These words in the manuscript imitate Stella's writing, and are
sloped the wrong way" (Deane Swift),

17 Archibald Douglas, third Marquis of Douglas, was created Duke of
Douglas in 1703. He died, without issue, in 1761.

18 Arbuthnot and Freind.




LETTER 39.

1 Sir Stephen Evance, goldsmith, was knighted in 1690.

2 Because of the refusal of the House of Lords to allow the Duke of
Hamilton (see Letter 27, note 9), a Scottish peer who had been raised
to the peerage of Great Britain as Duke of Brandon, to sit under that
title. The Scottish peers discontinued their attendance at the House
until the resolution was partially amended; and the Duke of Hamilton
always sat as a representative Scottish peer.

3 Sir William Robinson (1655-1736), created a baronet in 1689, was M.P.
for York from 1697 to 1722. His descendants include the late Earl De
Grey and the Marquis of Ripon.

4 See Letter 16, note 19. The full title was, Some Advice humbly offered
to the Members of the October Club, in a Letter from a Person of Honour.

5 See Letter 38, note 11.

6 "It is the last of the page, and written close to the edge of the
paper" (Deane Swift).

7 Henry Somerset, second Duke of Beaufort. In September 1711 the
Duke--who was then only twenty-seven--married, as his third wife, Mary,
youngest daughter of the Duke of Leeds. In the following January Lady
Strafford wrote, "The Duke and Duchess of Beaufort are the fondest of
one another in the world; I fear 'tis too hot to hold.... I own I fancy
people may love one another as well without making so great a rout"
(Wentworth Papers, 256). The Duke died in 1714, at the age of thirty.

8 "Upon the 10th and 17th of this month the Examiner was very severe
upon the Duke of Marlborough, and in consequence of this report pursued
him with greater virulence in the following course of his papers" (Deane
Swift).

9 A term of execration. Scott (Kenilworth) has, "A pize on it."

10 See Letter 11, note 13.

11 In a letter to Swift of Jan. 31, 1712, Sacheverell, after expressing
his indebtedness to St. John and Harley, said, "For yourself, good
Doctor, who was the first spring to move it, I can never sufficiently
acknowledge the obligation," and in a postscript he hinted that a place
in the Custom House which he heard was vacant might suit his brother.

12 Thomas Yalden, D.D., (1671-1736), Addison's college friend, succeeded
Atterbury as preacher of Bridewell Hospital in 1713. In 1723 he was
arrested on suspicion of being involved in the Atterbury plot.

13 Tablets.

14 Sir Solomon de Medina, a Jew, was knighted in 1700.

15 Davenant had been said to be the writer of papers which Swift
contributed to the Examiner.

16 Henry Withers, a friend of "Duke" Disney (see Letter 16, note 20),
was appointed Lieutenant-General in 1707, and Major-General in 1712. On
his death in 1729 he was buried in Westminster Abbey.

17 See Letter 36, note 18.

18 Dyer's News Letter, the favourite reading of Sir Roger de Coverley
(Spectator, No. 127), was the work of John Dyer, a Jacobite journalist.
In the Tatler (No. 18) Addison says that Dyer was "justly looked upon by
all the fox-hunters in the nation as the greatest statesman our country
has produced." Lord Chief-Justice Holt referred to the News Letter as "a
little scandalous paper of a scandalous author" (Howell's State Trials,
xiv. 1150).


Letter 40.

1 Dr. John Sharp, made Archbishop of York in 1691, was called by Swift
"the harmless tool of others' hate." Swift believed that Sharp, owing to
his dislike of The Tale of a Tub, assisted in preventing the bishopric
of Hereford being offered to him. Sharp was an excellent preacher, with
a taste for both poetry and science.

2 An edition of the Countess d'Aulnoy's Les Contes des Fees appeared in
1710, in four volumes.

3 Francis Godolphin, Viscount Rialton, the eldest son of Sidney, Earl
of Godolphin, succeeded his father as second Earl on Sept. 15, 1712. He
held 3 various offices, including that of Lord Privy Seal (1735-1740),
and died in 1766, aged eighty-eight. He married, in 1698, Lady Henrietta
Churchill, who afterwards was D