24. Like Swift, Bolton was
chaplain to Lord Berkeley, the Lord Lieutenant, and, according to Swift,
he obtained the deanery of Derry through Swift having declined to give a
bribe of 1000 pounds to Lord Berkeley's secretary. But Lord Orrery says
that the Bishop of Derry objected to Swift, fearing that he would be
constantly flying backwards and forwards between Ireland and England.

20 See Letter 2, note 16.

21 "That is, to the next page; for he is now within three lines of the
bottom of the first" (Deane Swift).

22 See Letter 4, note 15.

23 Joshua Dawson, secretary to the Lords Justices. He built a fine house
in Dawson Street, Dublin, and provided largely for his relatives by the
aid of the official patronage in his hands.

24 He had been dead three weeks (see Letters 3 and 5).

25 In The Importance of the Guardian Considered, Swift says that
Steele, "to avoid being discarded, thought fit to resign his place of
Gazetteer."

26 As Swift never used the name "Stella" in the Journal, this fragment
of his "little language" must have been altered by Deane Swift, the
first editor. Forster makes the excellent suggestion that the correct
reading is "sluttikins," a word used in the Journal on Nov. 28, 1710.
Swift often calls his correspondents "sluts."

27 Godolphin, who was satirised in Sid Hamel's Rod (see Letter 2, note
3).

28 No. 230.

29 "This appears to be an interjection of surprise at the length of his
journal" (Deane Swift).

30 Matthew Prior, poet and diplomatist, had been deprived of his
Commissionership of Trade by the Whigs, but was rewarded for his Tory
principles in 1711 by a Commissionership of Customs.

31 "The twentieth parts are 12 pence in the pound paid annually out of
all ecclesiastical benefices as they were valued at the Reformation.
They amount to about 500 pounds per annum; but are of little or no value
to the Queen after the offices and other charges are paid, though of
much trouble and vexation to the clergy" (Swift's "Memorial to Mr.
Harley").

32 Charles Mordaunt, the brilliant but erratic Earl of Peterborough, had
been engaged for two years, after the unsatisfactory inquiry into his
conduct in Spain by the House of Lords in 1708, in preparing an account
of the money he had received and expended. The change of Government
brought him relief from his troubles; in November he was made
Captain-General of Marines, and in December he was nominated Ambassador
Extraordinary to Vienna.

33 Tapped, nudged.

34 I.e., told only to you.

35 Sir Hew Dalrymple (1652-1737), Lord President of the Court of
Session, and son of the first Viscount Stair.

36 Robert Benson, a moderate Tory, was made a Lord of the Treasury in
August 1710, and Chancellor of the Exchequer in the following June, and
was raised to the peerage as Baron Bingley in 1713. He died in 1731.

37 The Smyrna Coffee-house was on the north side of Pall Mall, opposite
Marlborough House. In the Tatler (Nos. 10, 78) Steele laughed at the
"cluster of wise heads" to be found every evening at the Smyrna; and
Goldsmith says that Beau Nash would wait a whole day at a window at
the Smyrna, in order to receive a bow from the Prince or the Duchess of
Marlborough, and would then look round upon the company for admiration
and respect.

38 See Letter 4, note 14.

39 See Letter 5, note 17.

40 An Irish doctor, with whom Swift invested money.

41 Enoch Sterne, Collector of Wicklow and Clerk to the House of Lords in
Ireland.

42 Claret.

43 Colonel Ambrose Edgworth, a famous dandy, who is supposed to have
been referred to by Steele in No. 246 of the Tatler. Edgworth was the
son of Sir John Edgworth, who was made Colonel of a Regiment of Foot
in 1689 (Dalton, iii, 59). Ambrose Edgworth was a Captain in the same
regiment, but father and son were shortly afterwards turned out of
the regiment for dishonest conduct in connection with the soldiers'
clothing. Ambrose was, however, reappointed a Captain in General Eric's
Regiment of Foot in 1691. He served in Spain as Major in Brigadier
Gorge's regiment; was taken prisoner in 1706; and was appointed
Lieutenant-Colonel of Colonel Thomas Allen's Regiment of Foot in 1707.

44 This volume of Miscellanies in Prose and Verse was published by
Morphew in 1711.

45 Dr. Thomas Lindsay, afterwards Bishop of Raphoe.


Letter 7.

1 The first mention of the Vanhomrighs in the Journal. Swift had made
their acquaintance when he was in London in 1708.

2 Lady Elizabeth and Lady Mary (see Letter 3, note 40 and below).

3 John, third Lord Ashburnham, and afterwards Earl of Ashburnham
(1687-1737), married, on Oct. 21, 1710, Lady Mary Butler, younger
daughter of the Duke of Ormond. She died on Jan. 2, 1712-3, in her
twenty-third year. She was Swift's "greatest favourite," and he was much
moved at her death.

4 Edward Wortley Montagu, grandson of the first Earl of Sandwich, and
M.P. for Huntingdon. He was a great friend of Addison's, and the second
volume of the Tatler was dedicated to him. In 1712 he married the famous
Lady Mary Pierrepont, eldest daughter of the Duke of Kingston, and under
George I. he became Ambassador Extraordinary to the Porte. H