not for Penryn, but for Bossiney.

12 See Letter 3, note 32.

13 Sir George Beaumont, Bart., M.P. for Leicester, and an acquaintance
of Swift's mother, was made a Commissioner of the Privy Seal in 1712,
and one of the Lords of the Admiralty in 1714. He died in 1737.

14 Heneage Finch, afterwards second Earl of Aylesford, was the son of
Heneage Finch, the chief counsel for the seven bishops, who was created
Baron Guernsey in 1703, and Earl of Aylesford in 1714.

15 James, Lord Compton, afterwards fifth Earl of Northampton, was the
eldest son of George, the fourth Earl. He was summoned to the House of
Lords in December 1711, and died in 1754.

16 See Letter 11, note 12.




LETTER 21.

1 In 1670 Temple thanked the Grand Duke of Tuscany for "an entire
vintage of the finest wines of Italy" (Temple's Works, 1814, ii.
155-56).

2 Mrs. Manley (see Letter 17, note 22).

3 Charles Caesar, M.P. for Hertford, was appointed Treasurer of the Navy
in June 1711, in the room of Robert Walpole.

4 Joseph I. His successor was his brother Charles, the King of Spain
recognised by England.

5 Simon Harcourt, M.P. for Wallingford. He married Elizabeth, sister of
Sir John Evelyn, Bart., and died in 1720, aged thirty-five, before his
father. He was secretary to the society of "Brothers," wrote verses, and
was a friend of the poets. His son Simon was created Earl Harcourt in
1749, and was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.

6 Doiley, a seventeenth-century linen-draper,--probably "Thomas Doyley,
at the Nun, in Henrietta Street, Covent Garden,"--invented stuffs which
"might at once be cheap and genteel" (Spectator, No. 283).

7 A special envoy. The Resident from Venice in 1710 was Signor Bianchi.

8 See Letter 17, note 5.

9 Nanfan Coote, second Earl of Bellamont, who died in 1708, married, in
1705, Lucia Anna, daughter of Henry de Nassau, Lord of Auverquerque, and
sister of Henry, first Earl of Grantham. She died in 1744.

10 "Farnese" (Deane Swift).

11 See Letter 20, note 3.

12 Swift's changes of residence during the period covered by the Journal
were numerous. On Sept. 20, 1710, he moved from Pall Mall to Bury
Street, "where I suppose I shall continue while in London." But on Dec.
28 he went to new lodgings in St. Albans Street, Haymarket. On April 26,
1711, he moved to Chelsea, and from there to Suffolk Street, to be near
the Vanhomrighs. He next moved to St. Martins Street, Leicester Fields;
and a month later to Panton Street, Haymarket. In 1712 he lodged for a
time at Kensington Gravel Pits.

13 At raffling for books.

14 James Brydges, Paymaster-General, and afterwards Duke of Chandos (see
Letter 3, note 31).

15 Thomas Foley, M.P. for Worcestershire, was created Baron Foley in
December 1711, and died in 1733.

16 See 25th April, 1711 and Letter 20, note 3.

17 See Letter 19, note 3.

18 Charles Dering, second son of Sir Edward Dering, Bart., M.P. for
Kent, was Auditor of the Exchequer in Ireland, and M.P. for Carlingford.

19 See Letter 11, note 44.

20 See Letter 17, note 4.

21 A Whig paper, for the most part by Mainwaring and Oldmixon, in
opposition to the Examiner. It appeared weekly from October 1710 to
August 1711.

22 See Letter 17, note 22.

23 See Spectator, No. 50, by Addison.

24 In all probability a mistake for "Wesley" (see Letter 1, note 12).




LETTER 22.

1 Lord Paisley (see Letter 17, note 7).

2 See Letter 11, note 5.

3 Sir Hovenden Walker. The "man midwife" was Sir Chamberlen Walker, his
younger brother. The "secret expedition" against Quebec conveyed upwards
of 5000 soldiers, under the command of General John Hill (see Letter
10, note 2), but owing to the want of due preparations and the severe
weather encountered, the fleet was compelled to return to England
without accomplishing anything.

4 Robert Freind, elder brother of John Freind, M.D. (see Letter 9,
note 1), became headmaster of Westminster School in 1711, and held the
appointment until 1733. He was Rector of Witney, and afterwards Canon of
Windsor, Prebendary of Westminster, and Canon of Christ Church. He died
in 1751, aged eighty-four.

5 Christopher Musgrave was Clerk of the Ordnance.

6 Atterbury's wife, Katherine Osborn, has been described as "the
inspiration of his youth and the solace of his riper years."

7 The original Chelsea Bun House, in Jew's Row, was pulled down in
1839. Sir R. Philips, writing in 1817, said, "Those buns have afforded a
competency, and even wealth, to four generations of the same family; and
it is singular that their delicate flavour, lightness, and richness have
never been successfully imitated."

8 See Letter 8, note 22. King wrote to Swift (May 15, 1711), "The death
of the Earl of Rochester is a great blow to all good men, and even his
enemies cannot but do justice to his character. What influence it will
have on public affairs God only knows."

9 See Letter 11, note 11.

10 See Letter 17, note 6.

11 See Letter 18, note 4.

12 See Letter 20, note 13.

13 Swift's curate at Laracor.

14 Queen Anne was the last sovereign who exercised the supposed royal
gift of healing by touch. Dr. Johnson was touched by her, but without
effect.

15 Ric