th Lewis XIV.

19 When I come home.




LETTER 57.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc. Endorsed "Jan. 13."

2 "Ay, marry, this is something like." The earlier editions give,
"How agreeable it is in a morning." The words in the MS. are partially
obliterated.

3 In this letter (Dec. 20, 1712) Swift paid many compliments to the
Duchess of Ormond (see Letter 17, note 5): "All the accomplishments of
your mind and person are so deeply printed in the heart, and represent
you so lively to my imagination, that I should take it for a high
affront if you believed it in the power of colours to refresh my
memory."

4 Tisdall's Conduct of the Dissenters in Ireland (see Letter 61, note
7).

5 See Letter 9, note 20 and Letter 20, Apr. 13, 1711.

6 Monteleon.

7 See Letter 5, note 8 and Letter 3, note 3.

8 Utrecht, North and South Holland, and West Frieseland.

9 See Letter 46, note 11.

10 See Letter 46, note 11.

11 "On Queen Anne's Peace."

12 See Letter 43, note 11. The poem was "Dryades, or the Nymph's
Prophecy."

13 See Letter 35, note 4.

14 See Letter 17, note 3.

15 Dr. Tobias Pullen (1648-1713) was made Bishop of Dromore in 1695.

16 Lord Charles Douglas, Earl of Selkirk, died unmarried in 1739. When
his father, William, first Earl of Selkirk, married Anne, Duchess of
Hamilton, the Duchess obtained for her husband, in 1660, the title of
Duke of Hamilton, for life. James II. conferred the Earldom of Selkirk
on his Grace's second and younger sons, primogenitively; and the second
son having died without issue, the third, Charles, became Earl. The
fifth son, George, was created Earl of Orkney (see Letter 52, note 5).
The difference between Lord Selkirk and the Earl of Abercorn (see Letter
10, note 33) to which Swift alludes was in connection with the claim to
the Dukedom of Chatelherault (see Letter 43, note 32).

17 Heart.

18 This sentence is almost illegible.

19 A reward of 500 pounds was offered by the Crown for Maccartney's
apprehension, and 200 pounds by the Duchess of Hamilton.

20 In the proposed History of the Peace of Utrecht.

21 Mr. Ryland's reading. Forster has "Iss." These words are obliterated.

22 Hoist. Cf."Hoised up the mainsail" (Acts xxvii. 40).

23 It was afterwards found that Miss Ashe was suffering from smallpox.

24 We are told in the Wentworth Papers, p. 268, that the Duchess of
Shrewsbury remarked to Lady Oxford, "Madam, I and my Lord are so weary
of talking politics; what are you and your Lord?" whereupon Lady Oxford
sighed and said she knew no Lord but the Lord Jehovah. The Duchess
rejoined, "Oh, dear! Madam, who is that? I believe 'tis one of the new
titles, for I never heard of him before."

25 A thousand merry new years. The words are much obliterated.

26 Lady Anne Hamilton, daughter of James, first Duke of Hamilton, became
Duchess on the death of her uncle William, the second Duke, at the
battle of Worcester.

27 The quarrel between Oxford and Bolingbroke.

28 See Letter 19, note 1.

29 Burnet (History, iv. 382) says that the Duc d'Aumont was "a
goodnatured and generous man, of profuse expense, throwing handfuls of
money often out of his coach as he went about the streets. He was not
thought a man of business, and seemed to employ himself chiefly in
maintaining the dignity of his character and making himself acceptable
to the nation."

30 Partially obliterated.

31 For the most part illegible. Forster reads, "Go, play cards, and be
melly, deelest logues, and rove Pdfr. Nite richar MD, FW oo roves Pdfr.
FW lele lele ME ME MD MD MD MD MD MD. MD FW FW FW ME ME FW FW FW FW FW
ME ME ME."

32 On the third page of the paper.

33 See Letter 7, note 3.




LETTER 58.

1 To "Mrs. Dingley," etc. Endorsed "Feb. 4."

2 This sentence is scribbled over. Forster reads the last word as
"lastalls," i.e. rascals, but it seems rather to be "ledles."

3 Dr. Peter Brown was appointed Bishop of Cork in 1709.

4 See Letter 5, note 22.

5 See Letter 5, note 3.

6 See Letter 5, note 11.

7 Dr. H. Humphreys, Bishop of Hereford, died on Nov. 20, 1712. His
successor was Dr. Philip Bisse (1667-1721), Bishop of St. David's (see
Letter 3, note 36).

8 Thomas Keightley, a Commissioner of the Great Seal in Ireland.

9 Nearly obliterated. Mr. Ryland reads, "deelest MD."

10 See Letter 57, note 14.

11 In the Examiner for Jan. 5 to 9, 1712(-13), there is an account of
the game of Similitudes. One person thinks of a subject, and the others,
not knowing what it is, name similitudes, and when the subject is
proclaimed, must make good the comparisons. On the occasion described,
the subject chosen was Faction. The prize was given to a Dutchman, who
argued that Faction was like butter, because too much fire spoiled its
consistency.

12 Earl Poulett (see Letter 20, note 7).

13 "Say" (MS.).

14 Dr. Pratt.

15 See Letter 13, Jan. 6, 1710-11.

16 This sentence is partially obliterated.

17 See Letter 31, note 10 and, in the same letter, Oct. 5, 1711.

18 Cf. the account of Beatrix's feelings on the death of the Duke in
"Esmond", book iii. chaps. 6 and 7.

19 See Letter 21, note 3.

20 "Her Majesty is all goodness and tenderness to her people an