n his
favour" (Scott). Steele alludes to the "Footmen's Parliament" in No. 88
of the Spectator.

4 See Letter 1, note 3.

5 A Court of Equity abolished in the reign of Charles I. It met in the
Camera Alba, or Whitehall, and the room appears to have retained the
name of the old Court.

6 See Letter 6, note 2.

7 Swift's first contribution to the Examiner (No. 13) is dated Nov. 2,
1710.

8 Seduced, induced. Dryden (Spanish Friar) has "To debauch a king to
break his laws."

9 Freeman (see Letter 9, note 10).

10 "To make this intelligible, it is necessary to observe, that the
words 'this fortnight', in the preceding sentence, were first written
in what he calls their little language, and afterwards scratched out and
written plain. It must be confessed this little language, which passed
current between Swift and Stella, has occasioned infinite trouble in the
revisal of these papers" (Deane Swift).

11 Trim. An attack upon the liberties of this corporation is among the
political offences of Wharton's Lieutenancy of Ireland set forth in
Swift's Short Character of the Earl of Wharton.

12 Apologies.

13 "A Description of the Morning," in No. 9 of the Tatler.

14 See Letter 6, note 19.

15 William Palliser (died 1726).

16 See Letter 4, note 15.

17 "Here he writ with his eyes shut; and the writing is somewhat
crooked, although as well in other respects as if his eyes had been
open" (Deane Swift).

18 Tatler, No. 249; cf. p. 93. During this visit to London Swift
contributed to only three Tatlers, viz. Nos. 230, 238, and 258.

19 St. Andrew's Day.

20 No. 241.

21 Tatler, No. 258.

22 Lieutenant-General Philip Bragg, Colonel of the 28th Regiment of
Foot, and M.P. for Armagh, died in 1759.

23 James Cecil, fifth Earl of Salisbury, who died in 1728.

24 See Letter 2, note 13.

25 See Letter 8, note 22.

26 Kneller seems never to have painted Swift's portrait.

27 On Nov. 25 and 28.

28 Arthur Annesley, M.P. for Cambridge University, had recently become
fifth Earl of Anglesea, on the death of his brother (see Letter 3, note
35). Under George I. he was Joint Treasurer of Ireland, and Treasurer at
War.

29 A Short Character of the Earl of Wharton, by Swift himself, though
the authorship was not suspected at the time. "Archbishop King," says
Scott, "would have hardly otherwise ventured to mention it to Swift in
his letter of Jan. 9, 1710, as 'a wound given in the dark.'" Elsewhere,
however, in a note, Swift hints that Archbishop King was really aware of
the authorship of the pamphlet.

30 A false report. (See Letter 11, note 4.)

31 None of these Commissioners of Revenue lost their places at this
time. Samuel Ogle was Commissioner from 1699 to 1714; John South from
1696 until his death in 1711; and Sir William St. Quintin, Bart., from
1706 to 1713. Stephen Ludlow succeeded South in September 1711.

32 See Letter 7, note 35.

33 James Hamilton, sixth Earl of Abercorn (1656-1734), a Scotch peer who
had strongly supported the Union of 1706.




LETTER 11.

1 L'Estrange speaks of "insipid twittle twattles." Johnson calls this "a
vile word."

2 A cousin of Swift's; probably a son of William Swift.

3 Nicholas Sankey (died 1722) succeeded Lord Lovelace as Colonel of
a Regiment of Foot in Ireland in 1689. He became Brigadier-General in
1704, Major-General 1707, and Lieutenant-General 1710. He served in
Spain, and was taken prisoner at the battle of the Caya in 1709.

4 See Letter 10, note 30.

5 The Earl of Abercorn (see Letter 10, note 33) married, in 1686,
Elizabeth, only child of Sir Robert Reading, Bart., of Dublin, by Jane,
Dowager Countess of Mountrath. Lady Abercorn survived her husband twenty
years, dying in 1754, aged eighty-six.

6 Charles Lennox, first Duke of Richmond and Gordon (1672-1723), was the
illegitimate son of Charles II. by Madame de Querouaille.

7 Sir Robert Raymond, afterwards Lord Raymond (1673-1733), M.P. for
Bishop's Castle, Shropshire, was appointed Solicitor-General in May
1710, and was knighted in October. He was removed from office on the
accession of George I., but was made Attorney-General in 1720, and in
1724 became a judge of the King's Bench. In the following year he was
made Lord Chief-Justice, and was distinguished both for his learning and
his impartiality.

8 Lynn-Regis.

9 Richard Savage, fourth Earl Rivers, the father of Richard Savage, the
poet. Under the Whigs Lord Rivers was Envoy to Hanover; and after his
conversion by Harley, he was Constable of the Tower under the Tories. He
died in 1712.

10 Chancellor of the Exchequer in Ireland from 1695 until his death in
1717.

11 Lord Shelburne's clever sister, Anne, only daughter of Sir William
Petty, and wife of Thomas Fitzmaurice, Lord of Kerry, afterwards created
first Earl of Kerry.

12 Mrs. Pratt, an Irish friend of Lady Kerry, lodged at Lord Shelburne's
during her visit to London. The reference to Clements (see Letter 9,
note 20), Pratt's relative, in the Journal for April 14, 1711, makes
it clear that Mrs. Pratt was the wife of the Deputy Vice-Treasurer of
Ireland, to whom Swift often alludes (see Letter 3, note 10).

13 Lieutenant-General Thomas Mere