ce is obliterated. Forster reads, "Farewell, mine deelest
rife deelest char Ppt, MD MD MD Ppt, FW, Lele MD, ME ME ME ME aden FW MD
Lazy ones Lele Lele all a Lele."




LETTER 42.

1 Endorsed by Stella "Recd. Mar. 19."

2 "Would" (MS.).

3 Conversation.

4 John Guillim's Display of Heraldrie appeared first in 1610. The
edition to which Swift refers was probably that of 1679, which is
wrongly described as the "fifth edition," instead of the seventh.

5 "One of the horses here mentioned may have been the celebrated
Godolphin Arabian from whom descends all the blue blood of the
racecourse, and who was the grandfather of Eclipse" (Larwood's Story of
the London Parks, 99).

6 See Letter 36, note 6.

7 Dorothea, daughter of James Stopford, of New Hall, County Meath, and
sister of Lady Newtown-Butler, was the second wife of Edward, fourth
Earl of Meath, who died without issue in 1707. She afterwards married
General Richard Gorges (see Journal, April 5, 1713), of Kilbrue, County
Meath, and Swift wrote an epitaph on them--"Doll and Dickey."

8 Here follow some obliterated words.

9 Barber (see Letter 12, note 6).

10 "The editors supposed Zinkerman (which they printed in capitals)
to mean some outlandish or foreign distinction; but it is the little
language for 'gentleman'" (Forster).

11 The Hon. Charles Butler, second son of Thomas, Earl of Ossory, eldest
son of James, Duke of Ormond, was elevated to the peerage of Ireland in
1693 as Earl of Arran, and was also created a peer of England, as Baron
Butler. He held various offices under William III. and Queen Anne, and
died without issue in 1759.

12 "They" (MS.).

13 See Letter 31, Jan. 12, 1711-12 and Letter 3, note 22.

14 See Letter 11, note 13.

15 Sir William Wyndham, Bart., of Orchard Wyndham, married Lady
Catherine Seymour, daughter of the sixth Duke of Somerset (see Letter
25, note 1). Their eldest son, Charles, succeeded his uncle, the Duke of
Somerset, as Earl of Egremont; and the second son, Percy, was afterwards
created Earl of Thomond. The Wyndhams' house was in Albemarle Street;
the loss was over 20,000 pounds; but they were "much more concerned for
their servants than for all the other losses" (Wentworth Papers, 274).
The Duke of Ormond "worked as hard as any of the ordinary men, and gave
many guineas about to encourage the men to work hard." The Queen gave
the Wyndhams temporary lodgings in "St. James's house."

16 See Letter 3, note 31.

17 What.

18 Devil's.

19 "To" (MS.).

20 See Letter 35, note 25.

21 See Letter 41, note 34.

22 See Letter 12, Jan. 1, 1710-11.

23 Peregrine Hyde Osborne, Earl of Danby, afterwards Marquis of
Caermarthen and third Duke of Leeds (see Letter 56, note 6). His sister
Mary was married to the Duke of Beaufort (see Letter 39, note 7).

24 See Letter 9, note 17.

25 Several undecipherable words. Forster reads, "Pidy Pdfr, deelest
Sollahs."

26 "K" (MS.). It should, of course, be "Queen's."

27 See Letter 22, note 18.




LETTER 43.

1 Addressed "To Mrs. Johnson, at her lodgings over against St. Mary's
Church, near Capel Street, Dublin, Ireland." Endorsed "Mar. 30."

2 See Letter 9, note 1.

3 The Mohocks succeeded the Scowrers of William III.'s reign. Gay
(Trivia, iii. 325) says     "Who has not heard the Scowrers' midnight fame?
      Who has not trembled at the Mohocks' name?"
Lady Wentworth (Wentworth Papers, 277) says: "They put an old woman into
a hogshead, and rolled her down a hill; they cut off some noses, others'
hands, and several barbarous tricks, without any provocation. They are
said to be young gentlemen; they never take any money from any." See
also the Spectator, Nos. 324, 332, and 347 (where Budgell alludes to
"the late panic fear"), and Defoe's Review for March 15, 1712. Swift was
in considerable alarm about the Mohocks throughout March, and said that
they were all Whigs. The reports that numbers of persons, including men
of figure, had joined together to commit assaults in the streets, made
many fear to leave their houses at night. A proclamation was issued for
the suppressing of riots and the discovery of those guilty of the
late outrages; but it seems probable that the disorders were not more
frequent than might be expected from time to time in a great city.

4 Henry Davenant, son of Charles Davenant (see Letter 8, note 14), was
Resident at Frankfort. Macky described him as "very giddy-headed, with
some wit," to which Swift added, "He is not worth mentioning."

5 Thomas Burnet, youngest son of Gilbert Burnet, Bishop of Salisbury,
was at this time a young man about town of no good reputation.
Afterwards he turned his attention to the law, and was appointed a judge
of the Court of Common Pleas in 1741. He was knighted in 1745, and died
in 1753.

6 By Arbuthnot, written to recommend the peace proposals of the
Government. The full title was, Law is a Bottomless Pit. Exemplified in
the case of the Lord Strutt, John Bull, Nicholas Frog, and Lewis Baboon;
who spent all they had in a Law Suit.

7 See Letter 25, note 6 and Letter 41, note 35.

8 Our little language.

9 Forster reads, "two deelest nauty nown MD."

10 See Letter 