 Mountjoy (see Letter 1,
note 11), was M.P. at various times for Castlebar, Strabane, and County
Tyrone. He died in 1728.

Letter 8.

1 See Letter 3, note 1.

2 Swift, Esther Johnson, and Mrs. Dingley seem to have begun their
financial year on the 1st of November. Swift refers to "MD's allowance"
in the Journal for April 23, 1713.

3 Samuel Dopping, an Irish friend of Stella's, who was probably related
to Anthony Dopping, Bishop of Meath (died 1697), and to his son Anthony
(died 1743), who became Bishop of Ossory.

4 See Letter 2, note 17.

5 The wife of Alderman Stoyte, afterwards Lord Mayor of Dublin. Mrs.
Stoyte and her sister Catherine; the Walls; Isaac Manley and his wife;
Dean Sterne, Esther Johnson and Mrs. Dingley, and Swift, were the
principal members of a card club which met at each other's houses for a
number of years.

6 See Letter 1, note 12.

7 "This cypher stands for Presto, Stella, and Dingley; as much as to
say, it looks like us three quite retired from all the rest of the
world" (Deane Swift).

8 Steele's "dear Prue," Mary Scurlock, whom he married as his second
wife in 1707, was a lady of property and a "cried-up beauty." She was
somewhat of a prude, and did not hesitate to complain to her husband, in
and out of season, of his extravagance and other weaknesses. The other
lady to whom Swift alludes is probably the Duchess of Marlborough.

9 See Letter 7, note 7.

10 Remembers: an Irish expression.

11 This new Commission, signed by Narcissus Marsh, Archbishop of Armagh,
and William King, was dated Oct. 24, 1710. In this document Swift was
begged to take the full management of the business of the First-Fruits
into his hands, the Bishops of Ossory and Killala--who were to have
joined with him in the negotiations--having left London before Swift
arrived. But before this commission was despatched the Queen had granted
the First-Fruits and Twentieth Parts to the Irish clergy.

12 Lady Mountjoy, wife of the second Viscount Mountjoy (see Letter
1), was Anne, youngest daughter of Murrough Boyle, first Viscount
Blessington, by his second wife, Anne, daughter of Charles Coote,
second Earl of Mountrath. After Lord Mountjoy's death she married John
Farquharson, and she died in 1741.

13 Forster suggests that Swift wrote "Frond " or "Frowde" and there is
every reason to believe that this was the case. No Colonel Proud appears
in Dalton's Army Lists. A Colonel William Frowde, apparently third son
of Sir Philip Frowde, Knight, by his third wife, Margaret, daughter
of Sir John Ashburnham, was appointed Lieutenant-Colonel in Colonel
Farrington's (see note 18) Regiment of Foot in 1694. He resigned his
commission on his appointment to the First Life Guards in 1702, and he
was in this latter regiment in 1704. In November and December 1711 Swift
wrote of Philip Frowde the elder (Colonel William Frowde's brother) as
"an old fool," in monetary difficulties. It is probable that Swift's
Colonel Proud (? Frowde) was not Colonel William Frowde, but his nephew,
Philip Frowde, junior, who was Addison's friend at Oxford, and the
author of two tragedies and various poems. Nothing seems known of Philip
Frowde's connection with the army, but he is certainly called "Colonel"
by Swift, Addison, and Pope (see Forster's Swift, 159; Addison's Works,
v. 324; Pope's Works, v. 177, vi. 227). Swift wrote to Ambrose Philips
in 1705, "Col. Frond is just as he was, very friendly and grand reveur
et distrait. He has brought his poems almost to perfection." It will
be observed that when Swift met Colonel "Proud" he was in company with
Addison, as was also the case when he was with Colonel "Freind" (see
Letter 3, note 25).

14 Charles Davenant, LL.D., educated at Balliol College, Oxford, was the
eldest son of Sir William Davenant, author of Gondibert. In Parliament
he attacked Ministerial abuses with great bitterness until, in 1703, he
was made secretary to the Commissioners appointed to treat for a union
with Scotland. To this post was added, in 1705, an Inspector-Generalship
of Exports and Imports, which he retained until his death in 1714. Tom
Double, a satire on his change of front after obtaining his place, was
published in 1704. In a Note on Macky's character of Davenant, Swift
says, "He ruined his estate, which put him under a necessity to comply
with the times." Davenant's True Picture of a Modern Whig, in Two Parts,
appeared in 1701-2; in 1707 he published "The True Picture of a Modern
Whig revived, set forth in a third dialogue between Whiglove and
Double," which seems to be the piece mentioned in the text, though Swift
speaks of the pamphlet as "lately put out."

15 Hugh Chamberlen, the younger (1664-1728), was a Fellow of the College
of Physicians and Censor in 1707, 1717, and 1721. Atterbury and the
Duchess of Buckingham and Normanby were among his fashionable patients.
His father, Hugh Chamberlen, M.D., was the author of the Land Bank
Scheme of 1693-94.

16 Sir John Holland (see Letter 3, note 28).

17 Swift may mean either rambling or gambolling.

18 Thomas Farrington was appointed Colonel of the newly raised 29th
Regiment of Foot in 1702.