e died in
1761, aged eighty.

5 See Letter 5, note 27. No copy of these verses is known.

6 Henry Alexander, fifth Earl of Stirling, who died without issue in
1739. His sister, Lady Judith Alexander, married Sir William Trumbull,
Pope's friend.

7 "These words, notwithstanding their great obscurity at present,
were very clear and intelligible to Mrs. Johnson: they referred to
conversations, which passed between her and Dr. Tisdall seven or eight
years before; when the Doctor, who was not only a learned and faithful
divine, but a zealous Church-Tory, frequently entertained her with
Convocation disputes. This gentleman, in the year 1704, paid his
addresses to Mrs. Johnson" (Deane Swift). The Rev. William Tisdall
was made D.D. in 1707. Swift never forgave Tisdall's proposal to marry
Esther Johnson in 1704, and often gave expression to his contempt for
him. In 1706 Tisdall married, and was appointed Vicar of Kerry and
Ruavon; in 1712 he became Vicar of Belfast. He published several
controversial pieces, directed against Presbyterians and other
Dissenters.

8 No. 193 of the Tatler, for July 4, 1710, contained a letter from
Downes the Prompter in ridicule of Harley's newly formed Ministry.
This letter, the authorship of which Steele disavowed, was probably by
Anthony Henley.

9 William Berkeley, fourth Baron Berkeley of Stratton, was sworn of the
Privy Council in September 1710, and was appointed Chancellor of the
Duchy of Lancaster. He married Frances, youngest daughter of Sir John
Temple, of East Sheen, Surrey, and died in 1740.

10 Probably the widow of Sir William Temple's son, John Temple (see
Letter 2, note 13). She was Mary Duplessis, daughter of Duplessis
Rambouillet, a Huguenot.

11 The Rev. James Sartre, who married Addison's sister Dorothy, was
Prebendary and Archdeacon of Westminster. He had formerly been French
pastor at Montpelier. After his death in 1713 his widow married a Mr.
Combe, and lived until 1750.

12 William Congreve's last play was produced in 1700. In 1710, when
he was forty, he published a collected edition of his works. Swift and
Congreve had been schoolfellows at Kilkenny, and they had both been
pupils of St. George Ashe--afterwards Bishop of Clogher--at Trinity
College, Dublin. On Congreve's death, in 1729, Swift wrote, "I loved him
from my youth."

13 See Letter 4, note 11.

14 Dean Sterne.

15 See Letter 6, note 19.

16 When he became Dean he withheld from Swift the living of St. Nicholas
Without, promised in gratitude for the aid rendered by Swift in his
election.

17 Crowe was a Commissioner for Appeals from the Revenue Commissioners
for a short time in 1706, and was Recorder of Blessington, Co. Wicklow.
In his Short Character of Thomas, Earl of Wharton, 1710, Swift speaks of
Whartons "barbarous injustice to... poor Will Crowe."

18 See Letter 3, note 10.

19 See Letter 3, note 35.

20 See Letter 1, note 15.

21 Richard Tighe, M.P. for Belturbet, was a Whig, much disliked by
Swift. He became a Privy Councillor under George I.

22 Dryden Leach, of the Old Bailey, formerly an actor, was son of
Francis Leach. Swift recommended Harrison to employ Leach in printing
the continuation of the Tatler; but Harrison discarded him. (See
Journal, Jan. 16, 1710-11, and Timperley's Literary Anecdotes, 600,
631).

23 The Postman, which appeared three days in the week, written by M.
Fonvive, a French Protestant, whom Dunton calls "the glory and mirror
of news writers, a very grave, learned, orthodox man." Fonvive had a
universal system of intelligence, at home and abroad, and "as his news
is early and good, so his style is excellent."

24 Sir William Temple left Esther Johnson the lease of some property in
Ireland.

25 See Letter 5, note 23.

26 An out-of-the-way or obscure house. So Pepys (Diary, Oct. 15, 1661)
"To St. Paul's Churchyard to a blind place where Mr. Goldsborough was to
meet me."

27 Sir Richard Temple, Bart., of Stowe, a Lieutenant-General who saw
much service in Flanders, was dismissed in 1713 owing to his Whig views,
but on the accession of George I. was raised to the peerage, and was
created Viscount Cobham in 1718. He died in 1749. Congreve wrote in
praise of him, and he was the "brave Cobham" of Pope's first Moral
Essay.

28 Richard Estcourt, the actor, died in August 1712, when his abilities
on the stage and as a talker were celebrated by Steele to No. 468 of the
Spectator. See also Tatler, Aug. 6, 1709, and Spectator, May 5, 1712.
Estcourt was "providore" of the Beef-Steak Club, and a few months before
his death opened the Bumper Tavern in James Street, Covent Garden.

29 See Letter 5, note 49.

30 Poor, mean. Elsewhere Swift speaks of "the corrector of a hedge press
in Little Britain," and "a little hedge vicar."

31 Thomas Herbert, eighth Earl of Pembroke, was Lord Lieutenant from
April 1707 to December 1708. A nobleman of taste and learning, he was,
like Swift, very fond of punning, and they had been great friends in
Ireland.

32 See Letter 3, note 11.

33 See Letter 3, note 18.

34 A small town and fortress in what is now the Pas de Calais.

35 Richard Stewart, third son of the first Lord