The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Canterville Ghost, by Oscar Wilde,
Illustrated by Wallace Goldsmith


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net





Title: The Canterville Ghost

Author: Oscar Wilde

Release Date: December 30, 2004  [eBook #14522]

Language: English


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CANTERVILLE GHOST***


E-text prepared by Robert Cicconetti, Karina Aleksandrova, and the Project
Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 14522-h.htm or 14522-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/4/5/2/14522/14522-h/14522-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/4/5/2/14522/14522-h.zip)





THE CANTERVILLE GHOST

by

WILDE

An amusing chronicle of the tribulations of the Ghost of Canterville
Chase when his ancestral halls became the home of the American Minister
to the Court of St. James.

Illustrated by Wallace Goldsmith

John W. Luce and Company
Boston and London

1906







LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


MISS VIRGINIA E. OTIS

"HAD ONCE RACED OLD LORD BILTON ON HER PONY"

"BLOOD HAS BEEN SPILLED ON THAT SPOT"

"I REALLY MUST INSIST ON YOUR OILING THOSE CHAINS"

"THE TWINS ... AT ONCE DISCHARGED TWO PELLETS ON HIM"

"ITS HEAD WAS BALD AND BURNISHED"

"HE MET WITH A SEVERE FALL"

"A HEAVY JUG OF WATER FELL RIGHT DOWN ON HIM"

"MAKING SATIRICAL REMARKS ON THE PHOTOGRAPHS"

"SUDDENLY THERE LEAPED OUT TWO FIGURES"

"'POOR, POOR GHOST,' SHE MURMURED; 'HAVE YOU NO PLACE WHERE YOU CAN
SLEEP?'"

"THE GHOST GLIDED ON MORE SWIFTLY"

"HE HEARD SOMEBODY GALLOPING AFTER HIM"

"OUT ON THE LANDING STEPPED VIRGINIA"

"CHAINED TO IT WAS A GAUNT SKELETON"

"BY THE SIDE OF THE HEARSE AND THE COACHES WALKED THE SERVANTS WITH
LIGHTED TORCHES"

"THE MOON CAME OUT FROM BEHIND A CLOUD"




I


When Mr. Hiram B. Otis, the American Minister, bought Canterville Chase,
every one told him he was doing a very foolish thing, as there was no
doubt at all that the place was haunted. Indeed, Lord Canterville
himself, who was a man of the most punctilious honour, had felt it his
duty to mention the fact to Mr. Otis when they came to discuss terms.

"We have not cared to live in the place ourselves," said Lord
Canterville, "since my grandaunt, the Dowager Duchess of Bolton, was
frightened into a fit, from which she never really recovered, by two
skeleton hands being placed on her shoulders as she was dressing for
dinner, and I feel bound to tell you, Mr. Otis, that the ghost has been
seen by several living members of my family, as well as by the rector of
the parish, the Rev. Augustus Dampier, who is a Fellow of King's
College, Cambridge. After the unfortunate accident to the Duchess, none
of our younger servants would stay with us, and Lady Canterville often
got very little sleep at night, in consequence of the mysterious noises
that came from the corridor and the library."

"My Lord," answered the Minister, "I will take the furniture and the
ghost at a valuation. I have come from a modern country, where we have
everything that money can buy; and with all our spry young fellows
painting the Old World red, and carrying off your best actors and
prima-donnas, I reckon that if there were such a thing as a ghost in
Europe, we'd have it at home in a very short time in one of our public
museums, or on the road as a show."

"I fear that the ghost exists," said Lord Canterville, smiling, "though
it may have resisted the overtures of your enterprising impresarios. It
has been well known for three centuries, since 1584 in fact, and always
makes its appearance before the death of any member of our family."

"Well, so does the family doctor for that matter, Lord Canterville. But
there is no such thing, sir, as a ghost, and I guess the laws of Nature
are not going to be suspended for the British aristocracy."

"You are certainly very natural in America," answered Lord Canterville,
who did not quite understand Mr. Otis's last observation, "and if you
don't mind a ghost in the house, it is all right. Only you must remember
I warned you."

[Illustration: MISS VIRGINIA E. OTIS]

A few weeks after this, the purchase was concluded, and at the close of
the season the Minister and his family went down to Canterville Chase.
Mrs. Otis, who, as Miss Lucretia R. Tappan, of West 53d Street, had been
a celebrated New York belle, was now a very handsome, middle-aged woman,
with fine eyes, and a superb profile. Many American ladies on leaving
their native land adopt an appearance of chronic ill-health, under the
impression that it is a form of European refinement, but Mrs. Otis had
never fallen into this error. She had a magnificent constitution, and a
really wonderful amount of animal spirits. Indeed, in many respects, she
was quite English, and was an excellent example of the fact that we
have really everything in common with A